goal in theoretical neuroscience is to predict the response properties of sensory neurons from first principles. Several theories have been proposed to this end. Efficient coding posits that neural circuits maximise information encoded about their inputs. Sparse coding posits that individual neurons respond selectively to specific, rarely occurring, features. Finally, predictive coding posits that neurons preferentially encode stimuli that are useful for making predictions. Except in special cases, it is unclear how these theories relate to each other, or what is expected if different coding objectives are combined. To address this question, we developed a unified framework that encompasses these previous theories and extends to new regimes, such as sparse predictive coding. We explore cases when different coding objectives exert conflicting or synergistic effects on neural response properties. We show that predictive coding can lead neurons to either correlate or decorrelate their inputs, depending on presented stimuli, while (at low-noise) efficient coding always predicts decorrelation. We compare predictive versus sparse coding of natural movies, showing that the two theories predict qualitatively different neural responses to visual motion. Our approach promises a way to explain the observed diversity of sensory neural responses, as due to a multiplicity of functional goals performed by different cell types and/or circuits.
ing aspect of neuroscience revolves around mapping the synaptic connections within neural circuits (connectomics) over scales spanning several orders of magnitude (nanometers to meters). Despite significant improvements in serial section electron microscopy (SSEM) technologies, several major roadblocks have impaired its general applicability to mammalian neural circuits. In the present study, we introduce a new approach that circumvents these roadblocks by adapting a genetically-encoded ascorbate peroxidase (APEX2) as a fusion protein to a membrane-targeted fluorescent reporter (CAAX-Venus), and introduce it in single pyramidal neurons  in vivo  using extremely sparse  in utero  cortical electroporation (IUCE). This approach allows to perform Correlated Light-SSEM (CoLSSEM) on individual neurons, reconstructing their dendritic and axonal arborization in a targeted way via combination of high-resolution confocal microscopy, and subsequently imaging of its ultrastuctural features and synaptic connections with the ATUM-SEM (automated tape-collecting ultramicrotome - scanning electron microscopy) technology. Our method significantly improves the the feasibility of large-scale reconstructions of neurons within a circuit, and bridges the description of ultrastructural features of genetically-identified neurons with their functional and/or structural connectivity, one of the main goal of connectomics.
A long-standing evolutionary puzzle is that all eukaryotic genomes contain large amounts of tandemly-repeated satellite DNA whose composition varies greatly among even closely related species. To elucidate the evolutionary forces governing satellite dynamics, quantification of the rates and patterns of mutations in satellite DNA copy number and tests of its selective neutrality are necessary. Here we used whole-genome sequences of 28 mutation accumulation (MA) lines of  Daphnia pulex  in addition to six isolates from a non-MA population originating from the same progenitor to both estimate mutation rates of abundances of satellite sequences and evaluate the selective regime acting upon them. We found that mutation rates of individual satellite sequence kmers were both high and highly variable, ranging from additions/deletions of 0.29  105 copies per generation (reflecting changes of 0.12 - 0.80 percent per generation). Our results also provide evidence that new kmer sequences are often formed from existing ones. The non-MA population isolates showed a signal of either purifying or stabilizing selection, with 33 % lower variation in kmer abundance on average than the MA lines, although the level of selective constraint was not evenly distributed across all kmers. The changes between many pairs of kmers were correlated, and the pattern of correlations was significantly different between the MA lines and the non-MA population. Our study demonstrates that kmer sequences can experience extremely rapid evolution in abundance, which can lead to high levels of divergence in genome-wide satellite DNA composition between closely related species.
nding problem in ageing research is to understand how different factors contributing to longevity should be expected to act in combination under the assumption that they are independent. Standard epistasis analysis compares the extension of mean lifespan achieved by a combination of interventions to the prediction under an additive or multiplicative null model, but neither model is fundamentally justified. Moreover, the target of longevity interventions is not mean life span but the entire survival curve. Here we formulate superposition principles that predict the survival curve resulting from a combination of two interventions based on the survival curves of the individual treatments, and quantify epistasis as the deviation from this prediction. We test the method on a published data set comprising survival curves for all combinations of 4 different longevity interventions in  Caenorhabditis elegans . We find that epistasis is generally weak even when the standard analysis indicates otherwise.
A number of open questions in human evolutionary genetics would become tractable if we were able to directly measure evolutionary fitness. As a step towards this goal, we developed a method to examine whether individual genetic variants, or sets of genetic variants, currently influence viability. The approach consists in testing whether the frequency of an allele varies across ages, accounting for variation in ancestry. We applied it to the Genetic Epidemiology Research on Aging (GERA) cohort and to the parents of participants in the UK Biobank. Across the genome, we find only a few common variants with large effects on age-specific mortality: tagging the  APOE  4 allele and near  CHRNA3 . These results suggest that when large, even late onset effects are kept at low frequency by purifying selection. Testing viability effects of sets of genetic variants that jointly influence one of 42 traits, we detect a number of strong signals. In participants of the UK Biobank study of British ancestry, we find that variants that delay puberty timing are enriched in longer-lived parents ( P ~610 6  for fathers and  P ~210 3  for mothers), consistent with epidemiological studies. Similarly, in mothers, variants associated with later age at first birth are associated with a longer lifespan ( P ~110 3 ). Signals are also observed for variants influencing cholesterol levels, risk of coronary artery disease, body mass index, as well as risk of asthma. These signals exhibit consistent effects in the GERA cohort and among participants of the UK Biobank of non-British ancestry. Moreover, we see marked differences between males and females, most notably at the  CHRNA3  locus, and variants associated with risk of coronary artery disease and cholesterol levels. Beyond our findings, the analysis serves as a proof of principle for how upcoming biomedical datasets can be used to learn about selection effects in contemporary humans.
A programmable optical stimulator for  Drosophila  eyes is presented. The target application of the stimulator is to induce retinal degeneration in fly photoreceptor cells by exposing them to light in a controlled manner. The goal of this work is to obtain a reproducible system for studying age-related changes in susceptibility to environmental ocular stress. The stimulator uses light emitting diodes and an embedded computer to control illuminance, color (blue or red) and duration in two independent chambers. Further, the stimulator is equipped with per-chamber light and temperature sensors and a fan to monitor light intensity and to control temperature. An ON/OFF temperature control implemented on the embedded computer keeps the temperature from reaching levels that will induce the heat shock stress response in the flies. A custom enclosure was fabricated to house the electronic components of the stimulator. The enclosure provides a light-impermeable environment that allows air flow and lets users easily load and unload fly vials. Characterization results show that the fabricated stimulator can produce light at illuminances ranging from 0 to 16000 lux and power density levels from 0 to 7.2 mW/cm 2  for blue light. For red light the maximum illuminance is 8000 lux which corresponds to a power density of 3.54 mW/cm 2 . The fans and the ON/OFF temperature control are able to keep the temperature inside the chambers below 28.17C. Experiments with white-eye male flies were performed to assess the ability of the fabricated simulator to induce blue light-dependent retinal degeneration. Retinal degeneration is observed in flies exposed to 8 hours of blue light at 7949 lux. Flies in a control experiment with no light exposure show no retinal degeneration. Flies exposed to red light for the similar duration and light intensity (8 hours and 7994 lux) do not show retinal degeneration either. Hence, the fabricated stimulator can be used to create environmental ocular stress using blue light.
A recently published research article reported that the extreme halophile archaebacterium  Natronobacterium gregoryi  Argonaute enzyme (NgAgo) could cleave the cellular DNA under physiological temperature conditions in cell line and be implemented as an alternative to CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing technology. We assessed this claim in mouse zygotes for four loci ( Sptb ,  Tet-1 ,  Tet-2  and  Tet-3 ) and in the human HEK293T cell line for the EMX1 locus. Over 100 zygotes were microinjected with nls-NgAgo-GK plasmid provided from Addgene and various concentrations of 5- phosphorylated guide DNA (gDNA) from 2.5 ng/l to 50 ng/l and cultured to blastocyst stage of development. The presence of indels was verified using T7 endonuclease 1 assay (T7E1) and Sanger sequencing. We reported no evidence of successful editing of the mouse genome. We then assessed the lack of editing efficiency in HEK293T cell line for the EMX1 endogenous locus by monitoring the NgAgo protein expression level and the editing efficiency by T7E1 assay and Sanger sequencing. We reported that the NgAgo protein was expressed from 8 hours to a maximum expression at 48 hours post-transfection, confirming the efficient delivery of the plasmid and the gDNA but no evidence of successful editing of EMX1 target in all transfected samples. Together our findings indicate that we failed to edit using NgAgo.
A single protein can bind and regulate many mRNAs. Multiple proteins with similar specificities often bind and control overlapping sets of mRNAs. Yet, little is known about the architecture or dynamics of overlapped networks. We focused on three proteins with similar structures and related RNA-binding specificities  Puf3p, Puf4p, and Puf5p of  S. cerevisiae . Using RNA Tagging, we identified a super-network comprised of four sub-networks: Puf3p, Puf4p, and Puf5p sub-networks, and one controlled by both Puf4p and Puf5p. The architecture of individual subnetworks, and thus the super-network, are determined by competition among particular PUF proteins to bind mRNAs, their affinities for binding elements, and the abundances of the proteins. The super-network responds dramatically: the remaining network can either expand or contract. These strikingly opposite outcomes are determined by an interplay between the relative abundance of the RNAs and proteins, and their affinities for one another. The diverse interplay between overlapping RNA-protein networks provides versatile opportunities for regulation and evolution.
A sixth great mass extinction is ongoing due to the direct and indirect effects of human pressures. However, not all lineages are impacted equally. As humans, we frequently believe that we hold a unique place on Earth. Here, we show that our current impacts on the natural world risk to heighten that expectation. Evolutionary proximity to  Homo sapiens  emerges as a powerful predictor of extinction risk among mammals. Our analysis shows that the species most closely related to  H. sapiens  are exposed to a large variety of threat types and that they may also have greater intrinsic sensitivity to threats. Pruning back the tree of life around us will lead to our species being among those with the fewest close relatives. We will erase our evolutionary history, forcing its uniqueness. If no action is taken, we will lose crucial biodiversity for the preservation of Earth ecosystems, and a key reference to what makes us human.
A survey of bacterial and archaeal genomes shows that many Tn7-like transposons contain minimal type I-F CRISPR-Cas systems that consist of fused cas8f and cas5f, cas7f and cas6f genes, and a short CRISPR array. Additionally, several small groups of Tn7-like transposons encompass similarly truncated type I-B CRISPR-Cas systems. This gene composition of the transposon-associated CRISPR-Cas systems implies that they are competent for pre-crRNA processing yielding mature crRNAs and target binding but not target cleavage that is required for interference. Here we present phylogenetic analysis demonstrating that evolution of the CRISPR-Cas containing transposons included a single, ancestral capture of a type I-F locus and two independent instances of type I-B loci capture. We further show that the transposon-associated CRISPR arrays contain spacers homologous to plasmid and temperate phage sequences, and in some cases, chromosomal sequences adjacent to the transposon. A hypothesis is proposed that the transposon-encoded CRISPR-Cas systems generate displacement (R-loops) in the cognate DNA sites, targeting the transposon to these sites and thus facilitating their spread via plasmids and phages. This scenario fits the guns for hire concept whereby mobile genetic elements can capture host defense systems and repurpose them for different stages in the life cycle of the element.  Importance  CRISPR-Cas is an adaptive immunity system that protects bacteria and archaea from mobile genetic elements. We present comparative genomic and phylogenetic analysis of degenerate CRISPR-Cas variants associated with distinct families of transposable elements and develop the hypothesis that such repurposed defense systems contribute to the transposable element propagation by facilitating transposition into specific sites. Such recruitment of defense systems by mobile elements supports the guns for hire concept under which the same enzymatic machineries can be alternately employed for transposon proliferation or host defense.
Aberrations in signaling pathways that regulate tissue growth often lead to tumorigenesis. Homeodomain interacting protein kinase (Hipk) family members are reported to have distinct and contradictory effects on cell proliferation and tissue growth. From these studies it is clear that much remains to be learned about the roles of Hipk family protein kinases in proliferation and cell behaviour. Previous work has shown that Drosophila Hipk is a potent growth regulator, thus we predicted that it could have a role in tumorigenesis. In our study of Hipk-induced phenotypes, we observed the formation of tumor-like structures in multiple cell types in larvae and adults. Furthermore, elevated Hipk in epithelial cells induces cell spreading, invasion and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in the imaginal disc. Further evidence comes from cell culture studies in which we expressed Drosophila Hipk in human breast cancer cells and show that it enhances proliferation and migration. Past studies have shown that Hipk can promote the action of conserved pathways implicated in cancer and EMT, such as Wnt/Wingless, Hippo, Notch and JNK. We show that Hipk-phenotypes are not likely due to activation of a single target, but rather through a cumulative effect on numerous target pathways. Most Drosophila tumor models involve mutations in multiple genes, such as the well-known Ras V12  model, in which EMT and invasiveness occur after the additional loss of the tumor suppressor gene  scribble . Our study reveals that elevated levels of Hipk on their own can promote both hyperproliferation and invasive cell behaviour, suggesting that Hipks could be potent oncogenes and drivers of EMT.  Summary statement  The protein kinase Hipk can promote proliferation and invasive behaviors, as well as synergize with known cancer pathways, in a novel Drosophila model for tumorigenesis.
Accelerating international trade and climate change make pathogen spread an increasing concern.  Hymenoscyphus fraxineus,  the causal agent of ash dieback is one such pathogen, moving across continents and hosts from Asian to European ash. Most European common ash  (Fraxinus excelsior)  trees are highly susceptible to  H. fraxineus  although a small minority (~5%) evidently have partial resistance to dieback. We have assembled and annotated a draft of the  H. fraxineus  genome which approaches chromosome scale. Pathogen genetic diversity across Europe, and in Japan, reveals a tight bottleneck into Europe, though a signal of adaptive diversity remains in key host interaction genes (effectors). We find that the European population was founded by two divergent haploid individuals. Divergence between these haplotypes represents the 9shadow9 of a large source population and subsequent introduction would greatly increase adaptive potential and the pathogen9s threat. Thus, EU wide biological security measures remain an important part of the strategy to manage this disease.
Accurate annotation of all protein-coding sequences (CDSs) is an essential prerequisite to fully exploit the rapidly growing repertoire of completely sequenced prokaryotic genomes. However, large discrepancies among the number of CDSs annotated by different resources, missed functional short open reading frames (sORFs), and overprediction of spurious ORFs represent serious limitations.  Our strategy towards accurate and complete genome annotation consolidates CDSs from multiple reference annotation resources,  ab initio  gene prediction algorithms and  in silico  ORFs in an integrated proteogenomics database (iPtgxDB) that covers the entire protein-coding potential of a prokaryotic genome. By extending the PeptideClassifier concept of unambiguous peptides for prokaryotes, close to 95% of the identifiable peptides imply one distinct protein, largely simplifying downstream analysis. Searching a comprehensive  Bartonella henselae  proteomics dataset against such an iPtgxDB allowed us to unambiguously identify novel ORFs uniquely predicted by each resource, including lipoproteins, differentially expressed and membrane-localized proteins, novel start sites and wrongly annotated pseudogenes. Most novelties were confirmed by targeted, parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry, including unique ORFs and variants identified in a re-sequenced laboratory strain that are not present in its reference genome. We demonstrate the general applicability of our strategy for genomes with varying GC content and distinct taxonomic origin, and release iPtgxDBs for  B. henselae ,  Bradyrhozibium diazoefficiens  and  Escherichia coli  as well as the software to generate such proteogenomics search databases for any prokaryote.
Multi-electrode arrays (MEAs) have been used for many years to measure electrical activity in ensembles of many hundreds of neurons, and are used in research areas as diverse as neuronal connectivity and drug discovery. A high sampling frequency is required to adequately capture action potentials, also known as spikes, the primary electrical event associated with neuronal activity, and the resulting raw data files are large and difficult to visualize with traditional plotting tools. Many common approaches to deal with this issue, such as extracting spikes times and solely performing spike train analysis, significantly reduce data dimensionality. Unbiased data exploration benefits from the use of tools that minimize data transforms and such tools enable the development of heuristic perspective from data prior to any subsequent processing. Here we introduce MEA Viewer, a high-performance interactive application for the direct visualization of multi-channel electrophysiological data. MEA Viewer provides many high-performance visualizations of electrophysiological data, including an easily navigable overview of all recorded extracellular signals overlaid with spike timestamp data and an interactive raster plot. Beyond the fundamental data displays, MEA Viewer can signal average and spatially overlay the extent of action potential propagation within single neurons. This view extracts information below the spike detection threshold to directly visualize the propagation of action potentials across the plane of the MEA. This entirely new method of using MEAs opens up new and novel research applications for medium density arrays. MEA Viewer is licensed under the General Public License version 3, GPLv3, and is available at http://github.com/dbridges/mea-tools.
Actions motivated by a rewarding outcome are often associated with a risk of punishment. Little is known about the neural representation of punishment that is contingent on reward-guided behavior. We modeled this circumstance by using a task where actions were consistently rewarded but probabilistically punished. Spike activity and local field potentials were recorded during this task simultaneously from VTA and mPFC, two reciprocally connected regions implicated in both reward-seeking and aversive behavioral states. At the single unit level, we found that ensembles of VTA and mPFC neurons encode the contingency between action and punishment. At the network level, we found that coherent theta oscillations synchronize the VTA and mPFC in a bottom-up direction, effectively phase-modulating the neuronal spike activity in the two regions during punishment-free actions. This synchrony declined as a function of punishment contingency, suggesting that during reward-seeking actions, risk of punishment diminishes VTA-driven neural synchrony between the two regions.
Advances in light shaping techniques are leading to new tools for optical trapping and micromanipulation. For example, optical tweezers made from Laguerre-Gaussian or donut beams display an increased axial trap strength and can impart angular momentum to rotate a specimen. However, their application to precision, biophysical measurements remains limited as their are a number of challenges to applying this tool to optical force spectroscopy. One notable complication, not present when trapping with a Gaussian beam, is that the polarization of the trap light can significantly affect the tweezers strength as well as the precise location of the trap. In this article, we provide a practical implementation of a donut beam optical tweezers for applying axial forces. We show how to precisely calibrate the height of the optical trap above the coverslip surface while accounting for focal shifts in the trap position that arise due to radiation pressure, mismatches in the index of refraction, and polarization induced intensity variations.
ypti  is the principal vector of several important arboviruses. Among the methods of vector control to limit transmission of disease are genetic strategies that involve the release of sterile or genetically modified non-biting males (Alphey 2014), which has generated interest in manipulating mosquito sex ratios (Gilles  et al.  2014; Adelman and Tu 2016). Sex determination in  Ae. aegypti  is controlled by a non-recombining Y chromosome-like region called the M locus (Craig  et al . 1960), yet characterisation of this locus has been thwarted by the repetitive nature of the genome (Hall  et al.  2015). In 2015, an M locus gene named Nix was identified that displays the qualities of a sex determination switch (Hall  et al.  2015). With the use of a whole-genome BAC library, we amplified and sequenced a ~200kb region containing this male-determining gene. In this study, we show that Nix is comprised of two exons separated by a 99kb intron, making it an unusually large gene. The intron sequence is highly repetitive and exhibits features in common with old Y chromosomes, and we speculate that the lack of recombination at the M locus has allowed the expansion of repeats in a manner characteristic of a sex-limited chromosome, in accordance with proposed models of sex chromosome evolution in insects.
Aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs (AAnPs) are common in the global oceans and are associated with photoheterotrophic activity. To date, AAnPs have not been identified in the surface ocean that possess the potential for carbon fixation. Using the  Tara Oceans  metagenomic dataset, we have reconstructed draft genomes of four bacteria that possess the genomic potential for anoxygenic phototrophy, carbon fixation via the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle, and the oxidation of sulfite and thiosulfate. Forming a monophyletic clade within the  Alphaproteobacteria  and lacking cultured representatives, the organisms compose minor constituents of local microbial communities (0.1-1.0%), but are globally distributed, present in multiple samples from the North Pacific, Mediterranean Sea, the East Africa Coastal Province, and the South Atlantic. These organisms represent a shift in our understanding of microbially-mediated photoautotrophy in the global oceans and provide a previously undiscovered route of primary productivity.  Significance Statement  In examining the genomic content of organisms collected during the  Tara Oceans  expedition, we have identified a novel clade within the  Alphaproteobacteria  that has the potential for photoautotrophy. Based on genome observations, these organisms have the potential to couple inorganic sulfur compounds as electron donors to fix carbon into biomass. They are globally distributed, present in samples from the North Pacific, Mediterranean Sea, East Africa Coastal Current, and the South Atlantic. This discovery may require re-examination of the microbial communities in the global ocean to understand and constrain the impacts of this group of organisms on the global carbon cycle.
Aggressive behavior in dogs poses public health and animal welfare concerns, however the biological mechanisms regulating dog aggression are not well understood. We investigated the relationships between endogenous plasma oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP)  neuropeptides that have been linked to affiliative and aggressive behavior in other mammalian species  and aggression in domestic dogs. We first validated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for the measurement of free (unbound) and total (free + bound) OT and AVP in dog plasma. In Experiment 1 we evaluated behavioral and neuroendocrine differences between a population of pet dogs with a history of chronic aggression toward conspecifics and a matched control group. Dogs with a history of aggression exhibited more aggressive behavior during simulated encounters with conspecifics, and had lower free, but higher total plasma AVP than matched controls, but there were no group differences for OT. In Experiment 2 we compared OT and AVP concentrations between pet dogs and a population of assistance dogs that have been bred for affiliative and non-aggressive temperaments, and investigated neuroendocrine predictors of individual differences in social behavior within the assistance dog population. Compared to pet dogs, assistance dogs had higher free and total OT, but there were no differences in either measure for AVP. Within the assistance dog population, dogs who behaved more aggressively toward a threatening stranger had higher total AVP than dogs who did not. Collectively these data suggest that endogenous OT and AVP may play critical roles in shaping dog social behavior, including aspects of both affiliation and aggression.
Allosteric regulation is found across all domains of life, yet we still lack simple, predictive theories that directly link the experimentally tunable parameters of a system to its input-output response. To that end, we present a general theory of allosteric transcriptional regulation using the Monod-Wyman-Changeux model. We rigorously test this model using the ubiquitous simple repression motif in bacteria by first predicting the behavior of strains that span a large range of repressor copy numbers and DNA binding strengths and then constructing and measuring their response. Our model not only accurately captures the induction profiles of these strains but also enables us to derive analytic expressions for key properties such as the dynamic range and [ EC  50 ]. Finally, we derive an expression for the free energy of allosteric repressors which enables us to collapse our experimental data onto a single master curve that captures the diverse phenomenology of the induction profiles.
lthough apoptotic cells (ACs) contain nucleic acids that can be recognized by Toll-like receptors (TLRs), engulfment of ACs does not initiate inflammation in healthy organisms. To better understand this phenomenon, we identified and characterized macrophage populations that continually engulf ACs in several distinct tissues. These macrophages share characteristics compatible with immunologically silent clearance of ACs, including high expression of AC recognition receptors, low expression of TLR9, and reduced TLR responsiveness to nucleic acids. When removed from tissues these macrophages lose many of these characteristics and generate inflammatory responses to AC-derived nucleic acids, suggesting that cues from the tissue microenvironment are required to program macrophages for silent AC clearance. We show that KLF2 and KLF4 control expression of many genes within this AC clearance program. Coordinated expression of AC receptors with genes that limit responses to nucleic acids may represent a central feature of tissue macrophages that ensures maintenance of homeostasis.
Although large, complex genomic data sets are increasingly easy to generate, and the number of publicly available data sets in cancer and other diseases is rapidly growing, the lack of intuitive, easy to use analysis tools has remained a barrier to the effective use of such data. WebMeV (https://mev.tm4.org) is an open-source, web-based tool that gives users access to sophisticated tools for analysis of RNA-Seq and other data in an interface designed to democratize data access. WebMeV combines cloud-based technologies with a simple user interface to allow users to access large public data sets such as that from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) or to upload their own. The interface allows users to visualize data and to apply advanced data mining analysis methods to explore the data and draw biologically meaningful conclusions. We provide an overview of WebMeV and demonstrate two simple use cases that illustrate the value of putting data analysis in the hands of those looking to explore the underlying biology of the systems being studied.
Alzheimers disease (AD) is a chronically progressive neurodegenerative disease highly correlated to aging. Whether AD originates by targeting a localized brain area and propagates to the rest of the brain across disease-severity progression is a question with an unknown answer. Here, we aim to provide an answer to this question at the group-level by looking at differences in diffusion-tensor brain networks. In particular, making use of data from Alzheimer9s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), four different groups were defined (all of them matched by age, sex and education level):  G  1  ( N  1 =36, healthy control subjects, Control),  G  2  ( N  2 =36, early mild cognitive impairment, EMCI),  G  3  ( N  3 =36, late mild cognitive impairment, LMCI) and  G  4  ( N  4 =36, AD). Diffusion-tensor brain networks were compared across three disease stages: stage I 3(Control vs EMCI), stage II (Control vs LMCI) and stage III (Control vs AD). The group comparison was performed using the multivariate distance matrix regression analysis, a technique that was born in genomics and was recently proposed to handle brain functional networks, but here applied to diffusion-tensor data. The results were three-fold: First, no significant differences were found in stage I. Second, significant differences were found in stage II in the connectivity pattern of a subnetwork strongly associated to memory function (including part of the hippocampus, amygdala, entorhinal cortex, fusiform gyrus, inferior and middle temporal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus and temporal pole). Third, a widespread disconnection across the entire AD brain was found in stage III, affecting more strongly the same memory subnetwork appearing in stage II, plus the other new subnetworks,including the default mode network, medial visual network, frontoparietal regions and striatum. Our results are consistent with a scenario where progressive alterations of connectivity arise as the disease severity increases and provide the brain areas possibly involved in such a degenerative process. Further studies applying the same strategy to longitudinal data are needed to fully confirm this scenario.
myloid beta (A) peptides impair multiple cellular pathways in the brain and play a causative role in Alzheimers disease (AD) pathology, but how the brain proteome is remodeled during this process is unknown. To identify new protein networks associated with AD-like pathology, we performed global quantitative proteomic analysis in three mouse models at pre- and post-symptomatic ages. Our analysis revealed a robust and consistent increase in Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) levels in nearly all transgenic brain regions with increased A levels. Taken together with prior findings on ApoE driving A accumulation, this analysis points to a pathological dysregulation of the ApoE-A axis. We also found dysregulation of protein networks involved in excitatory synaptic transmission consistent with AD pathophysiology. Targeted analysis of the AMPA receptor complex revealed a specific loss of TARP-2, a key AMPA receptor trafficking protein. Expression of TARP-2  in vivo  in hAPP transgenic mice led to a restoration of AMPA currents. This database of proteome alterations represents a unique resource for the identification of protein alterations responsible for AD.  Highlights  Proteomic analysis of mouse brains with AD-like pathology reveals stark remodeling  Proteomic evidence points to a dysregulation of ApoE levels associated with A clearance rather than production  Co-expression analysis found distinctly impaired synapse and mitochondria modules  In-depth analyses of AMPAR complex points to loss of TARP-2, which may compromise synapses in AD  eTOC Blurb  Proteome-wide profiling of brain tissue from three mouse models of AD-like pathology reveals A, brain region, and age dependent alterations of protein levels. This resource provides a new global protein expression atlas for the Alzheimers disease research community.
n emerging realisation of infectious disease is the high incidence of genetic instability resulting from pathogen-induced DNA lesions, often leading to classical hallmarks of cancer such as evasion of apoptosis. The Human Immunodeficiency Virus type 1 (HIV-1) induces apoptosis in CD4+ T cells but is largely non-cytopathic in macrophages, thereby leading to long-term dissemination of the pathogen specifically by these host cells. Apoptosis is triggered by double-strand breaks (DSBs), such as those induced by integrating retroviruses, and is coordinated by the p53-regulated long noncoding RNA lincRNA-p21, in a complex with its protein binding partners HuR and hnRNP-K. Here, we monitor the cellular response to infection to determine how HIV-1 induces DSBs in macrophages yet evades apoptosis in these cells. We show that the virus does so by securing the pro-survival MAP2K1/ERK2 cascade early upon entry, in a gp120-dependent manner, to orchestrate a complex dysregulation of lincRNA-p21. By sequestering HuR in the nucleus, HIV-1 enables lincRNA-p21 degradation. Simultaneously, the virus permits transcription of pro-survival genes by sequestering hnRNP-K in the cytoplasm via the MAP2K1/ERK2 pathway. Notably, this pro-survival cascade is unavailable for similar viral manipulation in CD4+ T cells. The introduction of MAP2K1, ERK2 or HDM2 inhibitors in HIV-infected macrophages results in apoptosis providing strong evidence that the viral-mediated apoptotic block can be released, specifically by restoring the nuclear interaction of lincRNA-p21 and hnRNP-K. These results reveal pathogenic control of apoptosis and DNA damage via a host long noncoding RNA, and present MAP2K1/ERK2 inhibitors as a novel therapeutic intervention strategy for HIV-1 infection in macrophages.
An important question in cell biology is whether cells are able to measure size, either whole cell size or organelle size. Perhaps cells have an internal chemical representation of size that can be used to precisely regulate growth, or perhaps size is just an accident that emerges due to constraint of nutrients. The eukaryotic flagellum is an ideal model for studying size sensing and control because its linear geometry makes it essentially one-dimensional, greatly simplifying mathematical modeling. The assembly of flagella is regulated by intraflagellar transport (IFT), in which kinesin motors carry cargo adaptors for flagellar proteins along the flagellum and then deposit them at the tip, lengthening the flagellum. The rate at which IFT motors are recruited to begin transport into the flagellum is anticorrelated with the flagellar length, implying some kind of communication between the base and the tip and possibly indicating that cells contain some mechanism for measuring flagellar length. Although it is possible to imagine many complex scenarios in which additional signaling molecules sense length and carry feedback signals to the cell body to control IFT, might the already-known components of the IFT system be sufficient to allow length dependence of IFT? Here, we investigate a model in which the anterograde kinesin motors unbind after cargo delivery, diffuse back to the base, and are subsequently reused to power entry of new IFT trains into the flagellum. By modeling such a system at three different levels of abstraction we are able to show that the diffusion time of the motors can in principle be sufficient to serve as a proxy for length measurement. In all three implementations, we found that the diffusion model can not only achieve a stable steady-state length without the addition of any other signaling molecules or pathways, but also is able to produce the anticorrelation between length and IFT recruitment rate that has been observed in quantitative imaging studies.
Background  An organisms protein interactome, or complete network of protein-protein interactions, defines the protein complexes that drive cellular processes. Techniques for studying protein complexes have traditionally applied targeted strategies such as yeast two-hybrid or affinity purification-mass spectrometry to assess protein interactions. However, given the vast number of protein complexes, more scalable methods are necessary to accelerate interaction discovery and to construct whole interactomes. We recently developed a complementary technique based on the use of protein correlation profiling (PCP) and stable isotope labeling in amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) to assess chromatographic co-elution as evidence of interacting proteins. Importantly, PCP-SILAC is also capable of measuring protein interactions simultaneously under multiple biological conditions, allowing the detection of treatment-specific changes to an interactome. Given the uniqueness and high dimensionality of co-elution data, new tools are needed to compare protein elution profiles, control false discovery rates, and construct an accurate interactome.  Results  Here we describe a freely available bioinformatics pipeline, PrInCE, for the analysis of co-elution data. PrInCE is a modular, open-source library that is computationally inexpensive, able to use label and label-free data, and capable of detecting tens of thousands of protein-protein interactions. Using a machine learning approach, PrInCE offers greatly reduced run time, better performance, prediction of protein complexes, and greater ease of use over previous bioinformatics tools for co-elution data. PrInCE is implemented in Matlab (version R2015b). Source code and standalone executable programs for Windows and Mac OSX are available at https://github.com/fosterlab/PrInCE, where usage instructions can be found. An example dataset and output are also provided for testing purposes.  Conclusions  PrInCE is the first fast and easy-to-use data analysis pipeline that predicts interactomes and protein complexes from co-elution data. PrInCE allows researchers without bioinformatics proficiency to analyze high-throughput co-elution datasets.
Anaplastic meningioma is a rare and aggressive brain tumor characterised by intractable recurrences and dismal outcomes. Here, we present an integrated analysis of the whole genome, transcriptome and methylation profiles of primary and recurrent anaplastic meningioma. A key finding was the delineation of two distinct molecular subgroups that were associated with diametrically opposed survival outcomes. Relative to lower grade meningiomas, anaplastic tumors harbored frequent driver mutations in SWI/SNF complex genes, which were confined to the poor prognosis subgroup. Our analyses discern two biologically distinct variants of anaplastic meningioma with potential prognostic and therapeutic significance.
Anopheles  mosquitoes transmit at least 200 million annual malaria infections worldwide. Despite considerable genomic resources, mechanistic understanding of biological processes in  Anopheles  has been hampered by a lack of tools for reverse genetics. Here, we report successful application of the CRISPR/Cas9 system for highly efficient, site-specific mutagenesis in the diverse malaria vectors  Anopheles albimanus ,  Anopheles coluzzii , and  Anopheles funestus . When guide RNAs and Cas9 are injected at high concentration, germline mutations are common and usually bi-allelic allowing for the rapid creation of stable, mutant lines for reverse genetic analysis. Our protocol should enable researchers to dissect the molecular and cellular basis of anopheline traits critical to successful disease transmission, potentially exposing new targets for malaria control.
erior axis extension during vertebrate gastrulation requires cell proliferation, embryonic patterning, and morphogenesis to be spatiotemporally coordinated, but the underlying genetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we define a role for the conserved chromatin factor Gon4l, encoded by  ugly duckling (udu),  in coordinating tissue patterning and axis extension during zebrafish gastrulation. Although identified as a recessive enhancer of short axis phenotypes in planar cell polarity (PCP) mutants, we found that Gon4l functions in a genetically independent, partially overlapping fashion with PCP signaling to regulate mediolateral cell polarity underlying axis extension in part by promoting notochord boundary formation. We identified direct genomic targets of Gon4l and found that it acts as both a positive and negative regulator of gene expression, including limiting expression of the cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion molecules EpCAM and Integrin3b. Excess  epcam  or  itga3b  in wild-type gastrulae phenocopied notochord boundary defects of  udu  mutants, while downregulation of  itga3b  suppressed them. By promoting formation of this anteroposteriorly aligned boundary and associated cell polarity, Gon4l cooperates with PCP signaling to coordinate morphogenesis with the anteroposterior embryonic axis.
Apoptosis is critical to B-cell maturation, but studies of apoptotic regulation in primary human B cells is lacking. Previously, we found that infecting human B cells with Epstein-Barr virus induces two different survival strategies (Price  et al. , 2017). Here, we sought to better understand the mechanisms of apoptotic regulation in normal and activated B cells. Using intracellular BH3 profiling (iBH3), we defined the Bcl2-dependency of B-cell subsets from human peripheral blood and tonsillar lymphoid tissue as well as mitogen-activated B cells. We found that nave and memory B cells were BCL-2 dependent, while germinal center B cells were MCL-1 dependent and plasma cells were BCL-XL dependent. Proliferating B cells activated by CpG or CD40L/IL-4 became more dependent upon MCL-1 and BCL-XL. As B-cell lymphomas often rely on survival mechanisms derived from normal and activated B cells, these findings offer new insight into potential therapeutic strategies for lymphomas.
Archaeogenomic research has proven to be a valuable tool to trace migrations of historic and prehistoric individuals and groups, whereas relationships within a group or burial site have not been investigated to a large extent. Knowing the genetic kinship of historic and prehistoric individuals would give important insights into social structures of ancient and historic cultures. Most archaeogenetic research concerning kinship has been restricted to uniparental markers, while studies using genome-wide information were mainly focused on comparisons between populations. Applications which infer the degree of relationship based on modern-day DNA information typically require diploid genotype data. Low concentration of endogenous DNA, fragmentation and other post-mortem damage to ancient DNA (aDNA) makes the application of such tools unfeasible for most archaeological samples. To infer family relationships for degraded samples, we developed the software READ (Relationship Estimation from Ancient DNA). We show that our heuristic approach can successfully infer up to second degree relationships with as little as 0.1x shotgun coverage per genome for pairs of individuals. We uncover previously unknown relationships among prehistoric individuals by applying READ to published aDNA data from several human remains excavated from different cultural contexts. In particular, we find a group of five closely related males from the same Corded Ware culture site in modern-day Germany, suggesting patrilocality, which highlights the possibility to uncover social structures of ancient populations by applying READ to genome-wide aDNA data.
As functional components in three-dimensional conformation of an RNA, the RNA structural motifs provide an easy way to associate the molecular architectures with their biological mechanisms. In the past years, many computational tools have been developed to search motif instances by using the existing knowledge of well-studied families. Recently, with the rapidly increasing number of resolved RNA 3D structures, there is an urgent need to discover novel motifs with the newly presented information. In this work, we classify all the loops in non-redundant RNA 3D structures to detect plausible RNA structural motif families by using a clustering pipeline. Compared with other clustering approaches, our method has two benefits: first, the underlying alignment algorithm is tolerant to the variations in 3D structures; second, sophisticated downstream analysis has been performed to ensure the clusters are valid and easily applied to further research. The final clustering results contain many interesting new variants of known motif families, such as GNAA tetraloop, kink-turn, sarcin-ricin, and T-loop. We have also discovered potential novel functional motifs conserved in ribosomal RNA, sgRNA, SRP RNA, riboswitch, and ribozyme.
As sequencing technologies improve their capacity to detect distinct transcripts of the same gene and to address complex experimental designs such as longitudinal studies, there is a need to develop statistical methods for the analysis of isoform expression changes in time series data. Iso-maSigPro is a new functionality of the R package maSigPro for transcriptomics time series data analysis. Iso-maSigPro identifies genes with a differential isoform usage across time. The package also includes new clustering and visualization functions that allow grouping of genes with similar expression patterns at the isoform level, as well as those genes with a shift in major expressed isoform. The package is freely available under the LGPL license from the Bioconductor web site (http://bioconductor.org).
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a highly heritable childhood behavioral disorder affecting 5% of school-age children and 2.5% of adults. Common genetic variants contribute substantially to ADHD susceptibility, but no individual variants have been robustly associated with ADHD. We report a genome-wide association meta-analysis of 20,183 ADHD cases and 35,191 controls that identifies variants surpassing genome-wide significance in 12 independent loci, revealing new and important information on the underlying biology of ADHD. Associations are enriched in evolutionarily constrained genomic regions and loss-of-function intolerant genes, as well as around brain-expressed regulatory marks. These findings, based on clinical interviews and/or medical records are supported by additional analyses of a self-reported ADHD sample and a study of quantitative measures of ADHD symptoms in the population. Meta-analyzing these data with our primary scan yielded a total of 16 genome-wide significant loci. The results support the hypothesis that clinical diagnosis of ADHD is an extreme expression of one or more continuous heritable traits.
Background   Bacillus cereus sensu lato  ( s. l .) is an ecologically diverse bacterial group of medical and agricultural significance. In this study, I use publicly available genomes to characterize the  B. cereus s. l.  pan-genome and perform the largest phylogenetic and population genetic analyses of this group to date in terms of the number of genes and taxa included. With these fundamental data in hand, I identify genes associated with particular phenotypic traits (i.e., pan-GWAS analysis), and quantify the degree to which taxa sharing common attributes are phylogenetically clustered.  Methods  A rapid  k -mer based approach (Mash) was used to create reduced representations of selected  Bacillus  genomes, and a fast distance-based phylogenetic analysis of this data (FastME) was performed to determine which species should be included in  B. cereus s. l.  The complete genomes of eight  B. cereus s. l.  species were annotated de novo with Prokka, and these annotations were used by Roary to produce the  B. cereus s. l.  pan-genome. Scoary was used to associate gene presence and absence patterns with various phenotypes. The orthologous protein sequence clusters produced by Roary were filtered and used to build HaMStR databases of gene models that were used in turn to construct phylogenetic data matrices. Phylogenetic analyses used RAxML, DendroPy, ClonalFrameML, PAUP*, and SplitsTree. Bayesian model-based population genetic analysis assigned taxa to clusters using hierBAPS. The genealogical sorting index was used to quantify the phylogenetic clustering of taxa sharing common attributes.  The  B. cereus s. l.  pan-genome currently consists of 60,000 genes, 600 of which are core (common to at least 99% of taxa sampled). Pan-GWAS analysis revealed genes associated with phenotypes such as isolation source, oxygen requirement, and ability to cause diseases such as anthrax or food poisoning. Extensive phylogenetic analyses using an unprecedented amount of data produced phylogenies that were largely concordant with each other and with previous studies. Phylogenetic support as measured by bootstrap probabilities increased markedly when all suitable pan-genome data was included in phylogenetic analyses, as opposed to when only core genes were used. Bayesian population genetic analysis recommended subdividing the three major clades of  B. cereus s. l.  into nine clusters. Taxa sharing common traits and species designations exhibited varying degrees of phylogenetic clustering.
In the south and southeast of Brazil, autochthonous malaria cases can be found near Atlantic Forest fragments. The transmission is not totally clarified; thus, the behaviour of the possible vectors in those regions must be observed. An entomological and natural infection study was performed on anophelines (Diptera: Culicidae) captured in the municipalities of the mountainous region of Esprito Santo state in 2004-2005. Similarly, between the years 2014 and 2015, 12 monthly collections were performed at the permanent trapping station of the study mentioned above (Valsugana Velha, Santa Teresa, ES). Light traps with CO 2  (CO 2 -baited Center for Disease Control [CDC] traps) were set in open areas, at the edge of the forest (canopy and ground) and inside the forest (canopy and ground), whereas Shannon traps were set on the edge of the forest. A total of 1,414 anophelines were collected from 13 species.  Anopheles (Kerteszia) cruzii  Dyar and Knab remained the most captured species in the CO 2 -baited CDC traps set in the forest canopy and was also the vector with the highest prevalence of  Plasmodium vivax  infection according to molecular PCR techniques. Regarding mosquitoes of the subgenus  Nyssorhynchus ,  P. vivax  was found only in abdomens, weakening the hypothesis that this subgenus also plays a role in malaria transmission in this specific region.  Sponsorship  Esprito Santo Research Foundation (Fundao de Amparo  Pesquisa e Inovao do Esprito Santo  FAPES).
orm colonies and secrete extracellular polymeric substances that surround the individual cells. These spatial structures are often associated with collaboration and quorum sensing between the bacteria. Here we investigate the mutual protection provided by spherical growth of a monoclonal colony during exposure to phages that proliferate on its surface. As a proof of concept we exposed growing colonies of  Escherichia coli  to a virulent mutant of phage P1. When the colony consists of less than ~ 50000 members it is eliminated, while larger initial colonies allow long-term survival because the growth of bacteria throughout the spherical colony exceeds the killing of bacteria on the surface. A mathematical model pinpoints how this critical colony size depends on key parameters in the phage infection cycle. Surprisingly, we predict that a higher phage adsorption rate would allow substantially smaller colonies to survive a virulent phage.  Significance Statement  Bacteria are repeatedly exposed to an excess of phages, and carry evidence of this in terms of multiple defense mechanisms encoded in their genome. In addition to molecular mechanisms, bacteria may exploit the defense of spatial refuges. Here we demonstrate how bacteria can limit the impact of a virulent phage attack by growing as a colony which only exposes its surface to phages. We identify a critical size of the initial colony, below which the phages entirely eliminates the colony, and above which the colony continues to grow despite the presence of phages. Our study suggests that coexistence of phages and bacteria is strongly influenced by the spatial composition of microcolonies of susceptible bacteria.
Bacteria secrete a variety of compounds important for nutrient scavenging, competition mediation and infection establishment. While there is a general consensus that secreted compounds can be shared and therefore have social consequences for the bacterial collective, we know little about the physical limits of such bacterial social interactions. Here, we address this issue by studying the sharing of iron-scavenging siderophores between surface-attached microcolonies of the bacterium  Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Using single-cell fluorescent microscopy, we show that siderophores, secreted by producers, quickly reach non-producers within a range of 100 m, and significantly boost their fitness. Producers in turn respond to variation in sharing efficiency by adjusting their pyoverdine investment levels. These social effects wane with larger cell-to-cell distances and on hard surfaces. Thus, our findings reveal the boundaries of compound sharing, and show that sharing is particularly relevant between nearby yet physically separated bacteria on soft surfaces, matching realistic natural conditions such as those encountered in soft tissue infections.
athogenic bacterial infection imposes considerable cellular stress on the host and often leads to attenuation of mRNA translation. In this translation-suppressive environment, it is unclear how the host synthesizes various antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) to mount innate immune response. Here, we use  Drosophila  as a model to demonstrate that AMP production during infection relies on a translation bias mechanism mediated by the inhibitor of cap-dependent translation 4E-BP ( Drosophila  Thor), and the AMP 5UTRs that can undergo cap-independent translation. We found that 4E-BP is induced upon infection with the pathogenic bacteria  Ecc15  by the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF4, and its upstream kinase GCN2. Moreover, loss of  gcn2, atf4  or  4e-bp  compromised immunity against  Ecc15.  In 4E-BP mutants, the transcriptional induction of AMPs after infection was unaffected, while the protein levels of AMPs were substantially reduced in their hemolymph. Analysis of the 5UTRs of AMPs using cell-based bicistronic reporters and  in vitro  translation analysis indicated that AMPs are translated in a cap-independent mechanism. Analysis of bicistronic reporters in the presence of 4E-BP indicate that infection enhances cap-independent translational activity associated with AMP 5UTRs, accounting for enhanced AMP translation during infection.  Highlights  4E-BP is transcriptionally induced by GCN2/ATF signaling in response to bacterial infection  4E-BP mutants show unaltered antimicrobial peptide (AMP) transcript levels, but have reduced AMP translation  AMP 5UTRs are translated cap-independently  Translation bias by 4E-BP drives cap-independent AMP translation
Bacteriophages are the most abundant and diverse biological entities on the planet, and new phage genomes are being discovered at a rapid pace from metagenomes. As more novel, uncultured phage genomes are published, new tools are needed for placing these genomes in an ecological and evolutionary context. Phages are difficult to study with phylogenetic methods, because they exchange genes regularly, and no single gene is conserved across all phages. Instead, genome-level networks have been used to group similar viruses into clusters for taxonomy. Here, we show that gene-level networks provide a high-resolution view of phage genetic diversity and offer a novel perspective on virus ecology. To that end, we developed a method that identifies informative associations between a phages annotated host and clusters of genes in the network. Given these associations, we were able to predict a phages host with 86% accuracy at the genus level, while also identifying genes that underlie these virus-host interactions. This approach, thus, provides one of the most accurate means of host prediction while also pointing to directions for future empirical work.
Biological collagenous tissues comprised of networks of collagen fibers are suitable for a broad spectrum of medical applications owing to their attractive mechanical properties. In this study, we developed a noninvasive approach to estimate collagenous tissue elastic properties directly from microscopy images using Machine Learning (ML) techniques. Glutaraldehyde-treated bovine pericardium (GLBP) tissue, widely used in the fabrication of bioprosthetic heart valves and vascular patches, was chosen as a representative collagenous tissue. A Deep Learning model was designed and trained to process second harmonic generation (SHG) images of collagen networks in GLBP tissue samples, and directly predict the tissue elastic mechanical properties. The trained model is capable of identifying the overall tissue stiffness with a classification accuracy of 84%, and predicting the nonlinear anisotropic stress-strain curves with average regression errors of 0.021 and 0.031. Thus, this study demonstrates the feasibility and great potential of using the Deep Learning approach for fast and noninvasive assessment of collagenous tissue elastic properties from microstructural images.
Biological predispositions to attend to visual cues, such as those associated with face-like stimuli or with biological motion, guide social behavior from the first moments of life and have been documented in human neonates, infant monkeys and newly-hatched domestic chicks. In human neonates at high familial risk of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), a lack of such predispositions has been recently reported. Prompted by these observations, we modeled ASD behavioral deficit in newborn chicks, using embryonic exposure to valproic acid (VPA), the histone deacetylases (HDACs) inhibitor that in humans is associated with an increased risk for developing ASD. We assessed spontaneous predispositions in newly-hatched, visually-nave chicks, by comparing responses to a stuffed hen  vs.  a scrambled version of it. We found that social predispositions were abolished in VPAtreated chicks. In contrast, experience-dependent learning mechanisms associated with filial imprinting were not affected. Our results indicate a specific effect of VPA on the development of biologically-predisposed social orienting mechanisms, opening new perspectives to investigate the molecular and neurobiological mechanisms involved in early ASD symptoms.
Biomolecules exist and function in cellular micro-environments that control their spatial organization, local concentration and biochemical reactivity. Due to the complexity of native cytoplasm, the development of artificial bioreactors and cellular mimics to compartmentalize, concentrate and control the local physicochemical properties is of great interest. Here, we employ self-assembling polypeptide coacervates to explore the partitioning of the ubiquitous cytoskeletal protein actin into liquid polymer-rich droplets. We find that actin spontaneously partitions into coacervate droplets and is enriched by up to 30-fold. Actin polymerizes into micrometer-long filaments and, in contrast to the globular protein BSA, these filaments localize predominately to the droplet periphery. We observe up to a 50-fold enhancement in the actin filament assembly rate inside coacervate droplets, consistent with the enrichment of actin within the coacervate phase. Together these results suggest that coacervates can serve as a versatile platform in which to localize and enrich biomolecules to study their reactivity in physiological environments.  SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT  Living cells harbor many protein-rich membrane-less organelles, the biological functions of which are defined by compartment composition and properties. Significant differences between the physico-chemical properties of these crowded compartments and the dilute solutions in which biochemical reactions are traditionally studied pose a major challenge for understanding regulation of organelle composition and component activity. Here, we report the spontaneous partitioning and accelerated polymerization of the cytoskeletal protein actin inside model polypeptide coacervates as a proof-of-concept demonstration of coacervates as bioreactors for studying biomolecular reactions in cell-like environments. Our work introduces exciting avenues for the use of synthetic polymers to control the physical and biological properties of bioreactors in vitro, enabling studies of biochemical reactions in cell-like micro-environments.
BK polyomavirus (BKPyV) is a human pathogen first isolated in 1971. BKPyV infection is ubiquitous in the human population, with over 80% of adults worldwide being seropositive for BKPyV. BKPyV infection is usually asymptomatic; however, BKPyV reactivation in immunosuppressed transplant patients causes two diseases, polyomavirus-associated nephropathy and hemorrhagic cystitis. To establish a successful infection in its host cells, BKPyV must travel in retrograde transport vesicles to reach the nuclei. To make this happen, BKPyV requires the cooperation of host cell proteins. To further identify host factors associated with BKPyV entry and intracellular trafficking, we performed a whole-genome siRNA screen on BKPyV infection of primary human renal proximal tubular epithelial cells. The results revealed the importance of the Ras-related protein Rab18 and syntaxin 18 for BKPyV infection. Our subsequent experiments implicated additional factors that interact with this pathway, and suggest a more detailed model of the intracellular trafficking process, indicating that BKPyV reaches the ER lumen through a retrograde transport pathway between the late endosome and the ER.
Boi1 and Boi2 (Boi1/2) are budding yeast plasma membrane proteins that function in polarized growth, and in cytokinesis inhibition in response to chromosome bridges via the NoCut abscission checkpoint. How Boi1/2 act in these two distinct processes is not understood. We demonstrate that Boi1/2 are required for a late step in the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane of the growing bud. Cells lacking Boi1/2 accumulate secretory vesicles and are defective in bud growth. In contrast, Boi2 is specifically required for abscission inhibition in cells with chromatin bridges. The SH3 domain of Boi2, which is dispensable for bud growth and targets Boi2 to the site of abscission, is essential for abscission inhibition. Gain of function of the exocyst, a conserved protein complex involved in tethering of exocytic vesicles to the plasma membrane, rescued secretion and bud growth defects in  boi  mutant cells, and abrogated NoCut checkpoint function. Thus, Boi2 functions redundantly with Boi1 to promote the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane at sites of polarized growth, and acts as an abscission inhibitor during cytokinesis in response to chromatin bridges.
Brain computations depend on how neurons transform inputs to spike outputs. Here, to understand input-output transformations in cortical networks, we recorded spiking responses from visual cortex (V1) of awake mice of either sex while pairing sensory stimuli with optogenetic perturbation of excitatory and parvalbumin-positive inhibitory neurons. We found V1 neurons average responses were primarily additive (linear). We used a recurrent cortical network model to determine if these data, as well as past observations of nonlinearity, could be described by a common circuit architecture. The model showed cortical input-output transformations can be changed from linear to sublinear with moderate (20%) strengthening of connections between inhibitory neurons, but this change depends on the presence of feedforward inhibition. Thus, feedforward inhibition, a common feature of cortical circuitry, enables networks to flexibly change their spiking responses via changes in recurrent connectivity.  Significance statement  Brains are made up of neural networks that process information by receiving input activity and transforming those inputs into output activity. We use optogenetic manipulations in awake mice to expose how a transformation in a cortical network depends on internal network activity. Combining numerical simulations with our observations uncovers that transformation depend critically on feedforward inhibition  the fact that inputs to the cortex often make strong connections on both excitatory and inhibitory neurons.
Brain systems supporting face and voice processing both contribute to the extraction of important information for social interaction (e.g., person identity). How does the brain reorganize when one of these channels is absent? Here we explore this question by combining behavioral and multimodal neuroimaging measures (magneto-encephalography and functional imaging) in a group of early deaf humans. We show enhanced selective neural response for faces and for individual face coding in a specific region of the auditory cortex that is typically specialized for voice perception in hearing individuals. In this region, selectivity to face signals emerges early in the visual processing hierarchy, shortly following typical face-selective responses in the ventral visual pathway. Functional and effective connectivity analyses suggest reorganization in long-range connections from early visual areas to the face-selective temporal area in individuals with early and profound deafness. Altogether, these observations demonstrate that regions that typically specialize for voice processing in the hearing brain preferentially reorganize for face processing in born deaf people. Our results support the idea that cross-modal plasticity in case of early sensory deprivation relates to the original functional specialization of the reorganized brain regions.
Vertical HIV-1 transmission via breastfeeding is the predominant contributor to pediatric infections that are ongoing in this era of highly effective antiretroviral therapy (ART). Remarkably, only ~10% of infants chronically exposed to the virus via breastfeeding from untreated HIV-infected mothers become infected, suggesting the presence of naturally protective factors in breast milk. HIV-specific maternal antibodies are obvious candidates as potential contributors to this protection. This study assessed the protective capacity of common HIV envelope-specific non-broadly neutralizing antibodies isolated from breast milk of HIV-infected women in an infant rhesus monkey (RM), tier 2 SHIV oral challenge model. Prior to oral SHIV challenge, infant RMs were i.v. infused with either a single weakly-neutralizing monoclonal antibody (mAb), a tri-mAb cocktail with neutralizing and ADCC functionalities, or an anti-influenza HA control mAb. Of these groups, the fewest tri-mAb-treated infants developed plasma viremia (2/6, 3/6, and 6/8 animals viremic in tri-mAb, single-mAb, and control mAb groups, respectively). Tri-mAb-treated infants demonstrated significantly fewer transmitted/founder SHIV variants in plasma and decreased peripheral CD4+ T cell proviral loads at 8 week post-challenge compared to control mAb-treated infants. Abortive infection was observed as detectable CD4+ T cell provirus in non-viremic control mAb- and single-mAb-, but not tri-mAb-treated animals. Taken together, these results support the potential viability of maternal or infant vaccine strategies that elicit non-broadly neutralizing antibodies to prevent vertical transmission of HIV through breastfeeding.
CaMKII is a well-characterized, abundant protein kinase that regulates a diverse set of functions in a tissue specific manner. For example, in heart muscle, CaMKII regulates Ca 2+  homeostasis while in neurons CaMKII regulates activity-dependent dendritic remodeling and Long Term Potentiation (LTP), a biological correlate of learning and memory. Previously, we identified the noncanonical GTPase Rem2 as a critical regulator of dendrite branching and synapse formation in the vertebrate nervous system. Here, we report that Rem2 directly interacts with CaMKII and potently inhibits the activity of the intact holoenzyme, a previously undescribed function for the Rem2 protein. To date, only one other endogenous inhibitor of CaMKII has been described: CaMKIIN, which blocks CaMKII activity through binding to the catalytic domain. Our data suggest that Rem2 inhibits CaMKII through a novel mechanism, as inhibition requires the presence of the association domain of CaMKII. Our biochemical finding that Rem2 is a direct, endogenous inhibitor of CaMKII activity, coupled with known functions of Rem2 in neurons, provides a framework which will enable future experiments probing the physiological role of CaMKII inhibition in a cellular context.
Can genetic adaptation in reef-building corals keep pace with the current rate of sea surface warming? Here we combine population genomic, biophysical modeling, and evolutionary simulations to predict future adaptation of the common coral  Acropora millepora  on the Great Barrier Reef. Loss of coral cover in recent decades did not yet have detectable effect on genetic diversity in our species. Genomic analysis of migration patterns closely matched the biophysical model of larval dispersal in favoring the spread of existing heat-tolerant alleles from lower to higher latitudes. Given these conditions we find that standing genetic variation could be sufficient to fuel rapid adaptation of  A. millepora  to warming for the next 100-200 years, although random thermal anomalies would drive increasingly severe mortality episodes. However, this adaptation will inevitably cease unless the warming is slowed down, since no realistic mutation rate could replenish adaptive genetic variation fast enough.
Canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signalling regulates self-renewal and lineage selection within the mouse epidermis. Although the transcriptional response of keratinocytes that receive a Wnt signal is well characterised, little is known about the mechanism by which keratinocytes in proximity to the Wntreceiving cell are co-opted to undergo a change in cell fate. To address this, we performed single-cell mRNA-Seq on mouse keratinocytes co-cultured with and without the presence of beta-catenin activated neighbouring cells. We identified seven distinct cell states in cultures that had not been exposed to the beta-catenin stimulus and show that the stimulus redistributes wild type subpopulation proportions. Using temporal single-cell analysis we reconstruct the cell fate changes induced by neighbour Wnt activation. Gene expression heterogeneity was reduced in neighbouring cells and this effect was most dramatic for protein synthesis associated genes. The changes in gene expression were accompanied by a shift from a quiescent to a more proliferative stem cell state. By integrating imaging and reconstructed sequential gene expression changes during the state transition we identified transcription factors, including Smad4 and Bcl3, that were responsible for effecting the transition in a contact-dependent manner. Our data indicate that non cell-autonomous Wnt/beta-catenin signalling decreases transcriptional heterogeneity and further our understanding of how epidermal Wnt signalling orchestrates regeneration and self-renewal.
Carrion beetles,  Nicrophorus vespilloides , are reared on decomposing vertebrate carrion where larvae are exposed to high-density populations of carcass-derived bacteria. We previously showed that larvae do not become colonized with these bacteria, but instead are colonized with the gut microbiome of their parents. These results suggested that bacteria in the beetle microbiome outcompete the carcass derived species for colonization of the larval gut. Here we test this hypothesis directly and quantify the fitness consequences of colonization of the  Nicrophorus  larval gut with different bacterial symbionts, including the insect pathogen  Serratia marcescens . First, we show that beetles colonized by their endogenous microbiome produce significantly heavier broods than those colonized with carcass-bacteria. Next, we show that bacteria from the endogenous microbiome, including  Providencia rettgeri  and  Morganella morganii , are better colonizers of the beetle gut and can outcompete non-endogenous species, including  S. marcescens and Escherichia coli , during  in vivo  competition. Finally, we find that  Providencia  and  Morganella  provide beetles with colonization resistance against  Serratia  and thereby reduce  Serratia -induced larval mortality during co-inoculation. Importantly, this effect is eliminated in larvae first colonized by Serratia, suggesting that while competition within the larval gut is strongly determined by priority effects, these effects are less important for Serratia-induced mortality. Our work supports the idea that bacterial gut symbionts provide direct benefits to Nicrophorus larvae by outcompeting potential bacterial pathogens. They further suggest that one benefit of parental care in  Nicrophorus vespilloides  is the social transmission of the microbiome from caring parents to their offspring.
Cell autonomous cancer dependencies are now routinely identified using CRISPR loss-of-function screens. However, a bias exists that makes it difficult to assess the true essentiality of genes located in amplicons, since the entire amplified region can exhibit lethal scores. These false-positive hits can either be discarded from further analysis, which in cancer models can represent a significant number of hits, or methods can be developed to rescue the true-positives within amplified regions. We propose two methods to rescue true positive hits in amplified regions by correcting for this copy number artefact. The Local Drop Out (LDO) method uses the relative lethality scores within genomic regions to assess true essentiality and does not require additional orthogonal data (e.g. copy number value). LDO is meant to be used in screens covering a dense region of the genome (e.g. a whole chromosome or the whole genome). The General Additive Model (GAM) method models the screening data as a function of the known copy number values and removes the systematic effect from the measured lethality. GAM does not require the same density as LDO, but does require prior knowledge of the copy number values. Both methods have been developed with single sample experiments in mind so that the correction can be applied even in smaller screens. Here we demonstrate the efficacy of both methods at removing the copy number effect and rescuing hits from some of the amplified regions. We estimate a 70-80% decrease of false positive hits in regions of high copy number with either method.
ell fate generation can rely on the unequal distribution of molecules during progenitor cell division in the nervous system of vertebrates and invertebrates. Here we address asymmetric fate determinant localization in the developing  Drosophila  nervous system, focussing on the control of asymmetric Miranda distribution in larval neuroblasts. We used live imaging of neuroblast polarity reporters at endogenous levels of expression to address Miranda localization during the cell cycle. We reveal that the regulation and dynamics of cortical association of Miranda in interphase and mitosis are different. In interphase Miranda binds directly to the plasma membrane. At the onset of mitosis, Miranda is phosphorylated by aPKC and displaced from the PM. After nuclear envelope breakdown asymmetric localization of Miranda requires actomyosin activity. Therefore, Miranda phosphorylation by aPKC and differential binding to the actomyosin network are required at distinct phases of the cell cycle to polarize fate determinant localization.
Cytokinesis and other cell shape changes are driven by the actomyosin contractile cytoskeleton. The molecular rearrangements that bring about contractility in non-muscle cells are currently debated. Specifically, both filament sliding by myosin motors, as well as cytoskeletal crosslinking by myosins and non-motor crosslinkers, are thought to promote contractility. Here, we examined how the abundance of motor and non-motor crosslinkers controls the speed of cytokinetic furrowing. We built a minimal model to simulate the contractile dynamics of the  C. elegans  zygote cytokinetic ring. This model predicted that intermediate levels of non-motor crosslinkers would allow maximal contraction speed, which we found to be the case for the scaffold protein anillin,  in vivo . Our model also demonstrated a non-linear relationship between the abundance of motor ensembles and contraction speed.  In vivo , thorough depletion of non-muscle myosin II delayed furrow initiation, slowed F-actin alignment, and reduced maximum contraction speed, but partial depletion allowed faster-than-expected kinetics. Thus, both motor and non-motor crosslinkers promote cytokinetic ring closure when present at low levels, but act as a brake when present at higher levels. Together, our findings extend the growing appreciation for the roles of crosslinkers, but reveal that they not only drive but also brake cytoskeletal remodeling.
Cellular proliferation is antagonistically regulated by canonical and non-canonical Wnt signals; their dysbalance triggers cancers. It is widely believed that the PI3-K Akt pathway enhances canonical Wnt signals by affecting transcriptional activity and stability of -catenin. Here we demonstrate that the PI3-KAkt pathway also enhances non-canonical Wnt signals by compartmentalizing -catenin. By phosphorylating the phosphoinositide(PI)-binding domain of a multimodular signal transducer, Daple, Akt abolishes Daples ability to bind PI3-P-enriched endosomes that engage dynein motor complex for long-distance trafficking of -catenin/E-cadherin complexes to pericentriolar recycling endosomes (PCREs). Phosphorylation compartmentalizes Daple/-catenin/E-cadherin complexes to cell-cell contact sites, enhances non-canonical Wnt signals, and thereby, suppresses colony growth. Dephosphorylation compartmentalizes -catenin on PCREs, a specialized compartment for prolonged unopposed canonical Wnt signaling, and enhances colony growth. Cancer-associated Daple mutants that are insensitive to Akt mimic a constitutively dephosphorylated state. This work not only identifies Daple as a platform for crosstalk between Akt and the non-canonical Wnt pathway, but also reveals the impact of such crosstalk during cancer initiation and progression.
Cellular proliferation, differentiation, and morphogenesis are shaped by multiple signaling cascades; their concurrent dysregulation plays an integral role in cancer progression and is a common feature of many malignancies. Three such cascades that contribute to the oncogenic potential are the Wnt/Frizzled(FZD), growth factor-receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), and G-proteins/GPCRs. Here we identify Daple, a modulator of trimeric G-proteins and a Dishevelled (Dvl)-binding protein as an unexpected point of convergence for all three cascades. Daple-dependent activation of Gi and enhancement of non-canonical Wnt signals is not just triggered by Wnt5a/FZD to suppress tumorigenesis, but also hijacked by growth factor-RTKs to stoke tumor progression. Phosphorylation of Daple by both RTKs and non-RTKs triggers Gi activation and potentiates non-canonical Wnt signals that trigger epithelial-mesenchymal transition. In patients with colorectal cancers, concurrent upregulation of Daple and the prototype RTK, EGFR, carried poor prognosis. Thus, this work defines a novel growth factorG-proteinWnt crosstalk paradigm in cancer biology.
It is not clear why central nervous system (CNS) axons lose their intrinsic ability to regenerate with maturity, whilst peripheral (PNS) axons do not. A key difference between these neuronal types is their ability to transport integrins into axons. Integrins can mediate PNS regeneration, but are excluded from adult CNS axons along with their rab11 positive carriers. We reasoned that this exclusion might contribute to the intrinsic inability of CNS neurons to regenerate, and investigated this hypothesis using laser axotomy. We identify a novel regulator of selective axon transport and regeneration, the ARF6 GEF EFA6. EFA6 exerts its effects from a previously unreported location within the axon initial segment (AIS). EFA6 does not localise here in DRG axons, and in these neurons, ARF activation is counteracted by an ARF-GAP which is absent from the CNS, ACAP1. Depleting EFA6 from cortical neurons permits endosomal integrin transport and enhances regeneration, whilst overexpressing EFA6 prevents DRG regeneration. Our results demonstrate that ARF6 is an intrinsic regulator of regenerative capacity, implicating EFA6 as a focal molecule linking the axon initial segment, signalling and transport.  Summary Statement  We identify a novel resident of the axon initial segment, EFA6. This functions to prevent growth-promoting molecules from entering mature CNS axons. Removing EFA6 elevates the axons regenerative potential.
entrioles are composed of long-lived microtubules arranged in nine triplets. In unicellular eukaryotes, loss of the noncanonical tubulins, delta-tubulin and epsilon tubulin, result in loss of the triplet microtubule structure. However, the contribution of triplet microtubules to mammalian centriole formation and stability is unknown. Here, we report the first characterization of delta-tubulin and epsilon-tubulin  null  human cells. Centrioles in cells lacking either delta-tubulin or epsilon-tubulin lack triplet microtubules and fail to undergo centriole maturation. These aberrant centrioles are formed  de novo  each cell cycle, but are unstable and do not persist to the next cell cycle, leading to a futile cycle of centriole formation and disintegration. Disintegration can be suppressed by paclitaxel treatment. Delta-tubulin and epsilon-tubulin physically interact, indicating that these tubulins act together to maintain triplet microtubules and that these are necessary for inheritance of centrioles from one cell cycle to the next.
Chromatin accessibility, a crucial component of genome regulation, has primarily been studied in homogeneous and simple systems, such as isolated cell populations or early-development models. Whether chromatin accessibility can be assessed in complex, dynamic systems  in vivo  with high sensitivity remains largely unexplored. In this study, we use ATAC-seq to identify chromatin accessibility changes in a whole animal, the model organism  C. elegans , from embryogenesis to adulthood. Chromatin accessibility changes between developmental stages are highly reproducible, recapitulate histone modification changes, and reveal key regulatory aspects of the epigenomic landscape throughout organismal development. We find that over 5,000 distal non-coding regions exhibit dynamic changes in chromatin accessibility between developmental stages, and could thereby represent putative enhancers. When tested  in vivo , several of these putative enhancers indeed drive novel cell-type-and temporal-specific patterns of expression. Finally, by integrating transcription factor binding motifs in a machine learning framework, we identify EOR-1 as a unique transcription factor that may regulate chromatin dynamics during development. Our study provides a unique resource for  C. elegans , a system in which the prevalence and importance of enhancers remains poorly characterized, and demonstrates the power of using whole organism chromatin accessibility to identify novel regulatory regions in complex systems.
Chromosome segregation requires robust interactions between the macromolecular kinetochore structure and dynamic microtubule polymers. A key outstanding question is how kinetochore-microtubule attachments are modulated to ensure that bi-oriented attachments are selectively stabilized and maintained. The Astrin-SKAP complex localizes preferentially to properly bi-oriented sister kinetochores, representing the final outer kinetochore component recruited prior to anaphase onset. Here, we reconstitute the 4-subunit Astrin-SKAP complex, including a novel MYCBP subunit. Our work demonstrates that the Astrin-SKAP complex contains separable kinetochore localization and microtubule binding domains. In addition, through cross-linking analysis in human cells and biochemical reconstitution, we show that the Astrin-SKAP complex binds synergistically to microtubules with the Ndc80 complex, the core component of the kinetochore-microtubule interface, to form an integrated interface. We propose a model in which the Astrin-SKAP complex acts together with the Ndc80 complex to stabilize correctly formed kinetochore-microtubule interactions.
Cilia are organelles specialized for movement and signaling. To infer when during animal evolution signaling pathways became associated with cilia, we characterized the proteomes of cilia from three organisms: sea urchins, sea anemones and choanoflagellates. From these ciliomes, we identified 437 high confidence ciliary candidate proteins conserved in mammals, including known regulators of Hh, GPCR and TRP channel signaling. The phylogenetic profiles of their ciliary association indicate that the Hh and GPCR pathways were linked to cilia before the origin of bilateria and TRP channels before the origin of animals. We demonstrated that some of the candidates not previously implicated in ciliary biology localized to cilia and further investigated ENKUR, a TRP channel-interacting protein that we identified in the cilia of all three organisms. In animals, ENKUR is expressed by cells with motile cilia, ENKUR localizes to cilia in diverse organisms and, in both  Xenopus laevis  and mice, ENKUR is required for patterning the left/right axis. Moreover, mutation of  ENKUR  causes situs inversus in humans. Thus, proteomic profiling of cilia from diverse eukaryotes defines a conserved ciliary proteome, reveals ancient connections to Hh, GPCR and TRP channel signaling, and uncovers a novel ciliary protein that controls vertebrate development and human disease.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is the major pathway by which cells internalize materials from the external environment. Dynamin, a large multidomain GTPase, is a key regulator of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. It assembles at the necks of invaginated clathrin-coated pits and, through GTP hydrolysis, catalyzes scission and release of clathrin-coated vesicles from the plasma membrane. Several small molecule inhibitors of dynamins GTPase activity, such as Dynasore and Dyngo-4a, are currently available, although their specificity has been brought into question. Previous screens for these inhibitors measured dynamins stimulated GTPase activity due to lack of sufficient sensitivity, hence the mechanisms by which they inhibit dynamin are uncertain. We report a highly sensitive fluorescence-based assay capable of detecting dynamins basal GTPase activity under conditions compatible with high throughput screening. Utilizing this optimized assay, we conducted a pilot screen of 8000 compounds and identified several hits that inhibit the basal GTPase activity of dynamin-1. Subsequent dose-response curves were used to validate the activity of these compounds. Interestingly, we found neither Dynasore nor Dyngo-4a inhibited dynamins basal GTPase activity, although both inhibit assembly-stimulated GTPase activity. This assay provides the basis for a more extensive search for robust dynamin inhibitors.
 Clostridium difficile  is the largest single cause of hospital-acquired infection in the United States. A major risk factor for  Clostridium difficile  infection (CDI) is prior exposure to antibiotics, as they disrupt the gut bacterial community which protects from  C. difficile  colonization. Multiple antibiotic classes have been associated with CDI susceptibility; many leading to distinct community structures stemming from variation in bacterial targets of action. These community structures present separate metabolic challenges to  C. difficile.  Therefore we hypothesized that the pathogen adapts its physiology to the nutrients within different gut environments. Utilizing an  in vivo  CDI model, we demonstrated  C. difficile  highly colonized ceca of mice pretreated with any of three antibiotics from distinct classes. Levels of  C. difficile  spore formation and toxin activity varied between animals based on the antibiotic pretreatment. These physiologic processes in  C. difficile  are partially regulated by environmental nutrient concentrations. To investigate metabolic responses of the bacterium  in vivo , we performed transcriptomic analysis of  C. difficile  from ceca of infected mice across pretreatments. This revealed heterogeneous expression in numerous catabolic pathways for diverse growth substrates. To assess which resources  C. difficile  exploited, we developed a genome-scale metabolic model with a transcriptome-enabled metabolite scoring algorithm integrating network architecture. This platform identified nutrients  C. difficile  used preferentially between pretreatments, which were validated through untargeted mass spectrometry of each microbiome. Our results supported the hypothesis that  C. difficile  inhabits alternative nutrient niches across cecal microbiomes with increased preference for nitrogen-containing carbon sources, particularly Stickland fermentation substrates and host-derived glycans.  Importance  Infection by the bacterium  Clostridium difficile  causes an inflammatory diarrheal disease which can become life-threatening, and has grown to be the most prevalent nosocomial infection. Susceptibility to  C. difficile  infection is strongly associated with previous antibiotic treatment, which disrupts the gut microbiota and reduces its ability to prevent colonization. In this study we demonstrated that  C. difficile  altered pathogenesis between hosts pretreated with antibiotics from separate classes, and exploited different nutrient sources across these environments. Our metabolite score calculation also provides a platform to study nutrient requirements of pathogens during an infection. Our results suggest that  C. difficile  colonization resistance is mediated by multiple groups of bacteria competing for several subsets of nutrients and could explain why total reintroduction of competitors through fecal microbial transplant currently is the most effective treatment for recurrent CDI. This work could ultimately contribute to the identification of targeted, context-dependent measures that prevent or reduce  C. difficile  colonization including pre- and probiotic therapies.
Specialized neurons called cnidocytes define the phylum Cnidaria. They possess an explosive organelle called cnidocyst that is important for prey capture and antipredator defense. An extraordinary morphological and functional complexity of the cnidocysts has inspired numerous studies to investigate their structure and development. However, the transcriptomes of the cells bearing these unique organelles are yet to be characterized, impeding our understanding of the genetic basis of their biogenesis. By generating transgenic lines of the sea anemone  Nematostella vectensis  using the CRISPR/Cas9 system, we have characterized cell-type specific transcriptomic profiles of various stages of cnidocyte maturation and show that nematogenesis (the formation of functional cnidocysts) is underpinned by dramatic shifts in the spatiotemporal gene expression. We also highlight the stark fall in transcriptional-levels of toxin and structural protein coding genes within cnidocytes with the maturation of capsule. We further reveal that the majority of upregulated genes and enriched biochemical pathways specific to cnidocytes are yet to be characterized. Finally, we unravel the recruitment of a metazoan stress-related transcription factor complex into nematogenesis and highlight its role in the formation of a structural protein of the cnidocyst wall. Thus, we provide novel insights into the biology, development, and evolution of cnidocytes.
The coalescent process for prokaryote species is theoretically considered. Prokaryotes undergo homologous recombination not only with other individuals within the same species (intra-specific recombination) but also with other species (inter-specific recombination). This work particularly focuses the latter because the former has been well incorporated in the framework of the coalescent. We here developed a simulation framework for generating patterns of SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) allowing integration of external DNA out of the focal species, and a simulator named  msPro  was developed. We found that the joint work of intra- and inter-specific recombination creates a complex pattern of SNPs. The direct effect of inter-specific recombination is to increase the amount of polymorphism. Because inter-specific recombination is very rare in general, it creates a regions with an exceptionally high level of polymorphisms. Following an inter-specific recombination event, intra-specific recombination chop the integrated foreign DNA into small pieces, making a complicated pattern of SNPs that looks as if foreign DNAs were integrated multiple times. This work with the  msPro  simulator would be useful to understand and evaluate the relative contribution of intra- and inter specific recombination to creating complicated patterns of SNPs in prokaryotes.
oenzyme Q (CoQ) is a redox active lipid required for mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos). How CoQ biosynthesis is coordinated with the biogenesis of OxPhos protein complexes is unclear. Here, we show that the  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  RNA-binding protein (RBP) Puf3p directly regulates CoQ biosynthesis. To establish the mechanism for this regulation, we employed a transomic strategy to identify mRNAs that not only bind Puf3p, but also are regulated by Puf3p  in vivo . The CoQ biosynthesis enzyme Coq5p is a critical Put3p target: Puf3p regulates the level of Coq5p and prevents its toxicity, thereby enabling efficient CoQ production. In parallel, Puf3p represses a specific set of proteins involved in mitochondrial protein import, translation, and OxPhos complex assembly  pathways essential to prime mitochondrial biogenesis. Our data reveal a mechanism for post-transcriptionally coordinating CoQ production with OxPhos biogenesis and, more broadly, demonstrate the power of transomics for defining genuine targets of RBPs.  HIGHLIGHTS  The RNA binding protein (RBP) Puf3p regulates coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis  Transomic analysis of RNAs, proteins, lipids, and metabolites defines RBP targets  Puf3p regulates the potentially toxic CoQ biosynthesis enzyme Coq5p  Puf3p couples regulation of CoQ with a broader program for controlling mitochondria
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a heterogeneous disease and recent advances in subtype classification have successfully stratified the disease using molecular profiling. The contribution of bacterial species to CRC development is increasingly acknowledged, and here, we sought to analyse CRC microbiomes and relate them to tumour consensus molecular subtypes (CMS), in order to better understand the relationship between bacterial species and the molecular mechanisms associated with CRC subtypes. We classified 34 tumours into CRC subtypes using RNA-sequencing derived gene expression and determined relative abundances of bacterial taxonomic groups using 16S rRNA amplicon metabarcoding. 16S rRNA analysis showed enrichment of Fusobacteria and Bacteroidetes, and decreased levels of Firmicutes and Proteobacteria in CMS1. A more detailed analysis of bacterial taxa using non-human RNA-sequencing reads uncovered distinct bacterial communities associated with each molecular subtype. The most highly enriched species associated with CMS1 included  Fusobacterium hwasookii  and  Porphyromonas gingivalis . CMS2 was enriched for  Selenomas  and  Prevotella  species, while CMS3 had few significant associations. Targeted quantitative PCR validated these findings and also showed an enrichment of  Fusobacterium nucleatum, Parvimonas micra  and  Peptostreptococcus stomatis  in CMS1. In this study, we have successfully associated individual bacterial species to CRC subtypes for the first time.
Condensin, a conserved member of the SMC protein family of ring-shaped multi-subunit protein complexes, is essential for structuring and compacting chromosomes. Despite its key role, its molecular mechanism has remained largely unknown. Here, we employ single-molecule magnetic tweezers to measure, in real-time, the compaction of individual DNA molecules by the budding yeast condensin complex. We show that compaction proceeds in large (~200nm) steps, driving DNA molecules into a fully condensed state against forces of up to 2pN. Compaction can be reversed by applying high forces or adding buffer of high ionic strength. While condensin can stably bind DNA in the absence of ATP, ATP hydrolysis by the SMC subunits is required for rendering the association salt-insensitive and for subsequent compaction. Our results indicate that the condensin reaction cycle involves two distinct steps, where condensin first binds DNA through electrostatic interactions before using ATP hydrolysis to encircle the DNA topologically within its ring structure, which initiates DNA compaction. The finding that both binding modes are essential for its DNA compaction activity has important implications for understanding the mechanism of chromosome compaction.
Conflict between organisms can lead to reciprocal adaptation that manifests itself as an increased evolutionary rate in the genes mediating the conflict. This adaptive signature has been observed in RNA interference (RNAi) pathway genes involved in the suppression of viruses and transposable elements in  Drosophila melanogaster , suggesting that a subset of  Drosophila  RNAi genes may be locked into an arms race with these parasites. However, it is not known whether rapid evolution of RNAi genes is a general phenomenon across invertebrates, or which RNAi genes generally evolve adaptively. Here we use population genomic data from eight invertebrate species to infer rates of adaptive sequence evolution, and to test for past and ongoing selective sweeps in RNAi genes. We assess rates of adaptive protein evolution across species by using a formal meta-analytic framework to combine data across species, and by implementing a multispecies generalised linear mixed model of mutation counts. In all species, we find that RNAi genes display a greater rate of adaptive protein substitution than other genes, and that this is primarily mediated by positive selection acting on the subset of genes that are most likely to defend against viruses and transposable elements. In contrast, evidence for recent selective sweeps is broadly spread across functional classes of RNAi genes and differs substantially among species. Finally, we identify genes that exhibit elevated adaptive evolution across the analysed insect species combined, perhaps due to concurrent parasite-mediated arms races.
Contact inhibition is a central feature orchestrating cell proliferation in culture experiments; its loss is associated with malignant transformation and tumorigenesis. We performed a co-culture experiment with human metastatic melanoma cell line (SKMEL-147) and immortalized keratinocyte cells (HaCaT). After 8 days a spatial pattern was detected, characterized by the formation of clusters of melanoma cells surrounded by keratinocytes constraining their proliferation. In addition, we observed that the proportion of melanoma cells within the total population has increased. To explain our results we propose a spatial stochastic model (following a philosophy of the Widom-Rowlinson model from Statistical Physics and Molecular Chemistry) which considers cell proliferation, death, migration, and cell-to-cell interaction through contact inhibition. Our numerical simulations demonstrate that loss of contact inhibition is a sufficient mechanism, appropriate for an explanation of the increase in the proportion of tumor cells and generation of spatial patterns established in the conducted experiments.
Continued advances in neuroimaging technologies and statistical modelling capabilities have improved our knowledge of structural brain development in children and adolescents. While this has provided an increasingly nuanced understanding of brain development, the field is still plagued by inconsistent findings. This review highlights the methodological diversity in existing longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies on structural brain development during childhood and adolescence, and addresses how such variation might contribute to inconsistencies in the literature. We discuss the impact of method choices at multiple decision points across the research process, from study design and sample selection, to image processing and statistical analysis. We also highlight the extent to which different methodological considerations have been empirically examined, drawing attention to specific areas that would benefit from future investigation. Where appropriate, we recommend certain best practices that would be beneficial for the field to adopt, including greater completeness and transparency in reporting methods, in order to ultimately develop an accurate and detailed understanding of normative child and adolescent brain development.
Cooperation in collective action dilemmas usually breaks down in the absence of additional incentive mechanisms. This tragedy can be escaped if cooperators have the possibility to invest in reward funds that are shared exclusively among cooperators(prosocial rewarding). Yet, the presence of defectors who do not contribute to the public good but do reward themselves(antisocial rewarding) deters cooperation in the absence of additional countermeasures. A recent simulation study suggests that spatial structure is sufficient to prevent antisocial rewarding from deterring cooperation. Here we reinvestigate this issue assuming mixed strategies and weak selection on a game-theoretic model of social interactions, which we also validate using individual-based simulations. We show that increasing reward funds facilitates the maintenance of prosocial rewarding but prevents its evolution from rare, and that spatial structure can sometimes select against the evolution of prosocial rewarding. Our results suggest that, even in spatially structured populations, additional mechanisms are required to prevent antisocial rewarding from deterring cooperation in public goods dilemmas.
Covalent nucleotide modifications in noncoding RNAs such as tRNAs affect a plethora of biological processes, with new functions continuing to be discovered for even well-known tRNA modifications. To systematically compare the functions of a large set of ncRNA modifications in gene regulation, we carried out ribosome profiling and RNA-Seq in budding yeast for 57 nonessential genes involved in tRNA modification. Deletion mutants exhibited a range of translational phenotypes, with modifying enzymes known to modify anticodons, or non-tRNA substrates such as rRNA, exhibiting the most dramatic translational perturbations. Our data build on prior reports documenting translational upregulation of the nutrient-responsive transcription factor Gcn4 in response to numerous tRNA perturbations, and identify many additional translationally-regulated mRNAs throughout the yeast genome. Our data also uncover novel roles for tRNA modifying enzymes in transcriptional regulation of  TY  retroelements, and in rRNA 2-O-methylation. This dataset should provide a rich resource for discovery of additional links between tRNA modifications and gene regulation.
novel class of CRISPR-Cas DNA endonucleases, with a wide range of activity across different eukaryotic systems. Yet, the underlying determinants of this variability are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that LbCpf1, but not AsCpf1, ribonucleoprotein complexes allow efficient mutagenesis in zebrafish and  Xenopus . We show that temperature modulates Cpf1 activity by controlling its ability to access genomic DNA. This effect is stronger on AsCpf1, explaining its lower efficiency in ectothermic organisms. We capitalize on this property to show that temporal control of the temperature allows post-translational modulation of Cpf1-mediated genome editing. Finally, we determine that LbCpf1 significantly increases homology-directed repair in zebrafish, improving current approaches for targeted DNA integration in the genome. Together, we provide a molecular understanding of Cpf1 activity  in vivo  and establish Cpf1 as an efficient and inducible genome engineering tool across ectothermic species.
haped red blood cells, the hallmark of sickle cell disease, present a striking departure from the biconcave disc shape normally found in mammals. Characterized by increased mechanical fragility, sickled cells promote haemolytic anaemia and vaso-occlusions and contribute directly to disease in humans. Remarkably, a similar sickle-shaped morphology has been observed in erythrocytes from several deer species, without pathological consequences. The genetic basis of erythrocyte sickling in deer, however, remains unknown, limiting the utility of deer as comparative models for sickling. Here, we determine the sequences of human -globin orthologs in 15 deer species and identify a set of co-evolving, structurally related residues that distinguish sickling from non-sickling deer. Protein structural modelling indicates a sickling mechanism distinct from human sickle cell disease, coordinated by a derived valine (E22V) in the second alpha helix of the -globin protein. The evolutionary history of deer -globins is characterized by incomplete lineage sorting, episodes of gene conversion between adult and foetal -globin paralogs, and the presence of a trans-species polymorphism that is best explained by long-term balancing selection, suggesting that sickling in deer is adaptive. Our results reveal structural and evolutionary parallels and differences in erythrocyte sickling between human and deer, with implications for understanding the ecological regimes and molecular architectures that favour the evolution of this dramatic change in erythrocyte shape.
CRISPR gene drives can efficiently convert heterozygous cells with one copy of the drive allele into homozygotes, thereby enabling super-Mendelian inheritance. This mechanism could be used, for example, to rapidly disseminate a genetic payload through a population, promising novel strategies for the control of vector-borne diseases. However, all CRISPR gene drives tested have produced significant quantities of resistance alleles that cannot be converted to drive alleles and would likely prevent these drives from spreading in a natural population. In this study, we assessed three strategies for reducing resistance allele formation. First, we directly compared drives with the  nanos  and  vasa  promoters, which showed that the  vasa  drive produced high levels of resistance alleles in somatic cells. This was not observed in the  nanos  drive. Another strategy was the addition of a second gRNA to the drive, which both significantly increased the drive conversion efficiency and reduced the formation rate of resistance alleles. Finally, to minimize maternal carryover of Cas9, we assessed the performance of an autosomal drive acting in the male germline, and found no subsequent formation of resistance alleles in embryos. Our results mark a step toward developing effective gene drives capable of functioning in natural populations and provide several possible avenues for further reduction of resistance rates.
CRISPRi, an adapted CRISPR-Cas9 system, is proposed to act as a strand-specific roadblock to repress transcription in eukaryotic cells using guide RNAs (sgRNAs) to target catalytically inactive Cas9 (dCas9) and offers an alternative to genetic interventions for studying pervasive antisense transcription. Here we successfully use click chemistry to construct DNA templates for sgRNA expression and show, rather than acting simply as a roadblock, binding of sgRNA/dCas9 creates an environment that is permissive for transcription initiation and termination, thus generating novel sense and antisense transcripts. At  HMS2  in  Saccharomyces cerevisiae , sgRNA/dCas9 targeting to the non-template strand results in antisense transcription termination, premature termination of a proportion of sense transcripts and initiation of a novel antisense transcript downstream of the sgRNA/dCas9 binding site. This redefinition of the transcriptional landscape by CRISPRi demonstrates that it is not strand-specific and highlights the controls and locus understanding required to properly interpret results from CRISPRi interventions.
Crosslinking of IgE-bound FcRI triggers multiple cellular responses, including degranulation and cytokine production. Signaling is dependent on recruitment of Syk via docking of its dual SH2 domains to phosphorylated tyrosines within the FcRI immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs. Using single molecule imaging in live cells, we directly visualized and quantified the binding of individual mNeonGreen-tagged Syk molecules as they associated with the plasma membrane after FcRI activation. We found that Syk colocalizes transiently to FcRI and that Syk-FcRI binding dynamics are independent of receptor aggregate size. Substitution of glutamic acid for tyrosine between the Syk SH2 domains (SykY130E) led to an increased Syk-FcRI off-rate, loss of site-specific Syk autophosphorylation, and impaired downstream signaling. CRISPR-Cas9 engineered cells expressing only SykY130E were deficient in antigen-stimulated calcium release, degranulation and production of some cytokines (TNF-a, IL-3) but not others (MCP-1, IL-4). We propose that kinetic discrimination along the FcRI signaling pathway occurs at the level of Syk-FcRI interactions, with key outcomes dependent upon sufficiently long-lived Syk binding events.  Summary  Schwartz et al. use single molecule imaging to quantify the transient nature of FcRI-Syk interactions in live mast cells. A functional mutation that increases Syk off-rate leads to loss of site-specific Syk phosphorylation and impaired signaling, highlighting the importance of finely tuned protein interactions in directing cellular outcomes.
Crosstalk of signaling pathways plays crucial roles in cell fate determination, cell differentiation and proliferation. Both BMP-4/Smad-1 and FGF/Xbra signaling induce the expression of PV.1, leading to neural inhibition. However, BMP-4/Smad-1 and FGF/Xbra signaling crosstalk in the regulation of PV.1 transcription is still largely unknown. In this study, Smad-1 and Xbra physically interacted and regulated the PV.1 transcriptional activation in a synergistic manner. Xbra and Smad-1 directly bound within the proximal region of the PV.1 promoter and cooperatively enhanced the binding of an interacting partner within the promoter. Maximum cooperation was achieved in the presence of intact DNA binding sites of both Smad-1 and Xbra. Collectively, BMP-4/Smad-1 and FGF/Xbra signal crosstalk was required to activate the PV.1 transcription, synergistically. Suggesting that crosstalk of BMP-4 and FGF signaling facilitates the fine-tuning regulation of PV.1 transcription to inhibit neurogenesis during embryonic development of  Xenopus.   Summary statement  FGF/Xbra positively regulates the PV.1 expression in the Xenopus via an unknown mechanism. Our study shows that both BMP-4/Smad-1 and FGF/Xbra exhibits a signaling crosstalk to regulate PV.1 transcription activation, promoting to ectoderm and mesoderm formation and inhibiting the early neurogenesis in  Xenopus. 
Background  Cryptic genetic variation (CGV) is the hidden genetic variation that can be unlocked by perturbing normal conditions. CGV can drive the emergence of novel complex phenotypes through changes in gene expression. Although our theoretical understanding of CGV has thoroughly increased over the past decade, insight into polymorphic gene expression regulation underlying CGV is scarce. Here we investigated the transcriptional architecture of CGV in response to rapid temperature changes in the nematode  Caenorhabditis elegans . We analyzed regulatory variation in gene expression (and mapped eQTL) across the course of a heat stress and recovery response in a recombinant inbred population.  Results  We measured gene expression over three temperature treatments: i) control, ii) heat stress, and iii) recovery from heat stress. Compared to control, exposure to heat stress affected the transcription of 3305 genes, whereas 942 were affected in recovering animals. These affected genes were mainly involved in metabolism and reproduction. The gene expression pattern in recovering animals resembled both the control and the heat-stress treatment. We mapped eQTL using the genetic variation of the recombinant inbred population and detected 2626 genes with an eQTL in the heat-stress treatment, 1797 in the control, and 1880 in the recovery. The  cis -eQTL were highly shared across treatments. A considerable fraction of the  trans -eQTL (40-57%) mapped to 19 treatment specific  trans -bands. In contrast to  cis -eQTL,  trans -eQTL were highly environment specific and thus cryptic. Approximately 67% of the  trans -eQTL were only induced in a single treatment, with heat-stress showing the most unique  trans -eQTL.  Conclusions  These results illustrate the highly dynamic pattern of CGV across three different environmental conditions that can be evoked by a stress response over a relatively short time-span (2 hours) and that CGV is mainly determined by response related  trans  regulatory eQTL.
Whole-genome sequencing of microbial pathogens is revolutionising modern approaches to outbreaks of infectious diseases and is reliant upon organism culture. Culture-independent methods have shown promise in identifying pathogens, but high level reconstruction of microbial genomes from microbiologically complex samples for more in-depth analyses remains a challenge. Here, using metagenomic sequencing of a human faecal sample and analysis by tetranucleotide frequency profiling projected onto emergent self-organising maps, we were able to reconstruct the underlying populations of two extensively-drug resistant pathogens,  Klebsiella pneumoniae  carbapenemase (KPC)-producing  Klebsiella pneumoniae  and vancomycin-resistant  Enterococcus faecium.  From these genomes, we were able to ascertain molecular typing results, such as MLST, and identify highly discriminatory mutations in the metagenome to distinguish closely related strains. These proof-of-principle results demonstrate the utility of clinical sample metagenomics to recover sequences of important drug-resistant bacteria and application of the approach in outbreak investigations, independent of the need to culture the organisms.
Current morphometric methods that comprehensively measure shape cannot compare the disparate leaf shapes found in seed plants and are sensitive to processing artifacts. We explore the use of persistent homology, a topological method applied across the scales of a function, to overcome these limitations. The described method isolates subsets of shape features and measures the spatial relationship of neighboring pixel densities in a shape. We apply the method to the analysis of 182,707 leaves, both published and unpublished, representing 141 plant families collected from 75 sites throughout the world. By measuring leaves from throughout the seed plants using persistent homology, a defined morphospace comparing all leaves is demarcated. Clear differences in shape between major phylogenetic groups are detected and estimates of leaf shape diversity within plant families are made. This approach does not only predict plant family, but also the collection site, confirming phylogenetically invariant morphological features that characterize leaves from specific locations. The application of a persistent homology method to measure leaf shape allows for a unified morphometric framework to measure plant form, including shape and branching architectures.
Current treatments for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)an aggressive form of brain cancerare minimally effective and yield a median survival of 14.6 months and a two-year survival rate of 30%. Given the severity of GBM and the limitations of its treatment, there is a need for the discovery of novel drug targets for GBM and more personalized treatment approaches based on the characteristics of an individuals tumor. Most receptor tyrosine kinasessuch as EGFRact as oncogenes, but publicly available data from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) indicates copy number loss in the ERBB4 RTK gene across dozens of GBM cell lines, suggesting a potential tumor suppressor role. This loss is mutually exclusive with loss of its cognate ligand NRG1 in CCLE as well, more strongly suggesting a functional role. The availability of higher resolution copy number data from clinical GBM patients in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed that a region in Intron 1 of the ERBB4 gene was deleted in 69.1% of tumor samples harboring ERBB4 copy number loss; however, it was also found to be deleted in the matched normal tissue samples from these GBM patients (n = 81). Using the DECIPHER Genome Browser, we also discovered that this mutation occurs at approximately the same frequency in the general population as it does in the disease population. We conclude from these results that this loss in Intron 1 of the ERBB4 gene is neither a  de novo  driver mutation nor a predisposing factor to GBM, despite the indications from CCLE. A biological role of this significantly occurring genetic alteration is still unknown. While this is a negative result, the broader conclusion is that while copy number data from large cell line-based data repositories may yield compelling hypotheses, careful follow up with higher resolution copy number assays, patient data, and general population analyses are essential to codify initial hypotheses.
Cytoskeletal motor proteins are essential to the function of a wide range of intracellular mechanosystems. The biophysical characterization of their movement along their filamentous tracks is therefore of large importance. Towards this end, single-molecule,  in vitro  stepping-motility assays are commonly used to determine motor velocity and run length. However, comparing results from such experiments has proved difficult due to influences from variations in the experimental conditions and the data analysis methods. Here, we investigate the movement of fluorescently-labeled, processive, dimeric motor proteins and propose a unified algorithm to correct the measurements for finite filament length as well as photobleaching. Particular emphasis is put on estimating the statistical errors associated with the proposed evaluation method as knowledge of these values is crucial when comparing measurements from different experiments. Testing our approach with simulated and experimental data from GFP-labeled kinesin-1 motors stepping along immobilized microtubules, we show (i) that velocity distributions should be fitted by a  t  location-scale probability density function rather than by a norm * al distribution, (ii) that the impossibility to measure events shorter than the image acquisition time needs to be accounted for, (iii) that the interaction time and run length of the motors can be estimated independent of the filament length distribution, and (iv) that the dimeric nature of the motors needs to be considered when correcting for photobleaching. Moreover, our analysis reveals that controlling the temperature during the experiments with a precision below 1 K is of importance. We believe, our method will not only improve the evaluation of experimental data, but will also allow for better statistical comparisons between different populations of motor proteins (e.g. with distinct mutations or linked to different cargos) and filaments (e.g. in distinct nucleotide states or with different posttranslational modifications).
D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase (DTD), a  trans -editing factor found in bacteria and eukaryotes, removes D-amino acids mischarged on tRNAs as well as achiral glycine mischarged on tRNA Ala . An invariant cross-subunit Gly- cis Pro motif forms the mechanistic basis of strict L-amino acid rejection from the catalytic site. Here, we present the identification of a DTD variant, named ATD (Animalia-specific tRNA deacylase), that harbors a Gly- trans Pro motif. The  cis -to- trans  switch causes a gain of function through L-chiral selectivity in ATD resulting in the clearing of L-alanine mischarged on tRNA Thr (G4U69) by eukaryotic AlaRS. The biochemical proofreading activity of ATD is conserved across diverse classes of phylum Chordata. Animalia genomes enriched in tRNA Thr (G4U69) genes are in strict association with the presence of ATD, underlining the mandatory requirement of a dedicated factor to proofread tRNA misaminoacylation. The study highlights the emergence of ATD during genome expansion as a key event associated with the evolution of Animalia.
aptomycin is a lipopeptide antibiotic with activity against Gram-positive bacteria. We have shown previously that  Staphylococcus aureus  can survive daptomycin exposure by releasing membrane phospholipids that inactivate the antibiotic. To determine whether other pathogens possess this defence mechanism, phospholipid release and daptomycin activity were measured after incubation of  Staphylococcus epidermidis , Group A or B streptococci,  Streptococcus gordonii  or  Enterococcus faecalis  with the antibiotic. All bacteria released phospholipid in response to daptomycin, which resulted in at least partial inactivation of the antibiotic. However,  E. faecalis  showed the highest levels of lipid release and daptomycin inactivation. As shown previously for  S. aureus , phospholipid release by  E. faecalis  was inhibited by the lipid biosynthesis inhibitor platensimycin. In conclusion, several pathogenic Gram-positive bacteria, including  E. faecalis , inactivate daptomycin by releasing phospholipids, which may contribute to the failure of daptomycin to resolve infections caused by these pathogens.
Background   De novo  transcriptome assembly is an important technique for understanding gene expression in non-model organisms. Many de novo assemblers using the de Bruijn graph of a set of the RNA sequences rely on in-memory representation of this graph. However, current methods analyse the complete set of read-derived k-mer sequence at once, resulting in the need for computer hardware with large shared memory.  Results  We introduce a novel approach that clusters k-mers as the first step. The clusters correspond to small sets of gene products, which can be processed quickly to give candidate transcripts. We implement the clustering step using the MapReduce approach for parallelising the analysis of large datasets, which enables the use of compute clusters. The computational task is distributed across the compute system, and no specialised hardware is required. Using this approach, we have re-implemented the Inchworm module from the widely used Trinity pipeline, and tested the method in the context of the full Trinity pipeline. Validation tests on a range of real datasets show large reductions in the runtime and per-node memory requirements, when making use of a compute cluster.  Conclusions  Our study shows that MapReduce-based clustering has great potential for distributing challenging sequencing problems, without loss of accuracy. Although we have focussed on the Trinity package, we propose that such clustering is a useful initial step for other assembly pipelines.
Background  Decitabine is a deoxycytidine nucleoside derivative inhibitor of DNA-methyltransferases, which has been studied extensively and is approved for myelodysplastic syndrome in adults but with less focus in children. Accordingly, we conducted a phase 1 multicenter, randomized, open-label study to evaluate decitabine pre-treatment before standard induction therapy in children with newly diagnosed AML to assess safety and tolerability and explore a number of biologic endpoints.  Results  Twenty-four patients were fully assessable for all study objectives per protocol (10 in Arm A, 14 in Arm B). All patients experienced neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. The most common grade 3 and 4 non-hematologic adverse events observed were gastrointestinal toxicities and hypophosphatemia. Plasma decitabine PK were similar to previously reported adult data. Overall CR/CRi was similar for the two arms. MRD negativity at end-induction was 85% in Arm A versus 67% in Arm B patients. DNA methylation measured in peripheral blood over the course of treatment tracked with blast clearance and matched marrow aspirates at day 0 and day 21. Unlike end-point marrow analyses, promoter methylation in blood identified an apparent reversal of response in the lone treatment failure, one week prior to the patients marrow aspirate confirming non-response. Decitabine-induced effects of end-induction marrows in Arm A were reflected by changes in DNA methylation and gene expression comparison with matched paired marrow diagnostic aspirates.  Conclusions  This first-in-pediatrics trial demonstrates that decitabine prior to standard combination chemotherapy is feasible and well tolerated in children with newly diagnosed AML. Pre-treatment with decitabine may represent a newer therapeutic option for pediatric AML, especially as it appears to induce important epigenetic alterations. The novel biological correlates studied in this trial offer a clinically relevant window into disease progression and remission. Additional studies are needed to definitively assess whether decitabine can enhance durability responses in children with AML. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01177540.
Deleterious alleles have long been proposed to play an important role in patterning phenotypic variation and are central to commonly held ideas explaining the hybrid vigor observed in the offspring by crossing two inbred parents. We test these ideas using evolutionary measures of sequence conservation to ask whether incorporating information about putatively deleterious alleles can inform genomic selection (GS) models and improve phenotypic prediction. We measured a number of agronomic traits in both the inbred parents and hybrids of an elite maize partial diallel population and re-sequenced the parents of the population. Inbred elite maize lines vary for more than 350,000 putatively deleterious sites, but show a lower burden of such sites than a comparable set of traditional landraces. Our modeling reveals widespread evidence for incomplete dominance at these loci, and supports theoretical models that more damaging variants are usually more recessive. We identify haplotype blocks using an identity-by-decent (IBD) analysis and perform genomic prediction analyses in which we weigh blocks on the basis of segregating putatively deleterious variants. Cross-validation results show that incorporating sequence conservation in genomic selection improves prediction accuracy for grain yield and other fitness-related traits as well as heterosis for those traits. Our results provide empirical support for an important role for incomplete dominance of deleterious alleles in explaining heterosis and demonstrate the utility of incorporating functional annotation in phenotypic prediction and plant breeding.  Author Summary  A key long-term goal of biology is understanding the genetic basis of phenotypic variation. Although most new mutations are likely disadvantageous, their prevalence and importance in explaining patterns of phenotypic variation is controversial and not well understood. In this study we combine whole genome-sequencing and field evaluation of a maize mapping population to investigate the contribution of deleterious mutations to phenotype. We show that  a priori  prediction of deleterious alleles correlates well with effect sizes for grain yield and that variants predicted to be more damaging are on average more recessive. We develop a simple model allowing for variation in the heterozygous effects of deleterious mutations and demonstrate its improved ability to predict both phenotypes and hybrid vigor. Our results help reconcile alternative explanations for hybrid vigor and highlight the use of leveraging evolutionary history to facilitate breeding for crop improvement.
bacteria can promote or reduce the severity of viral infection and disease progression in their hosts depending on the specific viral pathogen 1 . Influenza A virus (IAV) has a broad host-range, comprises many subtypes, and utilizes different routes of transmission including the fecal-oral route in wild birds 2 . It has been previously demonstrated that commensal bacteria can interact with the hosts immune system to protect against IAV pathogenesis 3,4 . However, it is unclear whether bacteria and their products may be interacting directly with IAV to impact virion stability. Herein we show that gastrointestinal (GI) tract bacterial isolates in an  in vitro  system significantly reduce the thermal stability of IAV. Moreover, bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), found on the exterior surfaces of bacteria, was sufficient to significantly decrease the stability of both human and avian viral strains at the physiological temperatures of their respective hosts, as well as in the aquatic environment. Subtype and host-origin of the viruses were shown to affect the extent to which IAV was susceptible to LPS. Furthermore, using a receptor-binding assay and transmission electron microscopy, we observed that LPS binds to and affects the morphology of influenza virions.
Deregulated signal transduction pathways and energy metabolism are hallmarks of cancer and both play a fundamental role in the process of tumorigenesis. While it is increasingly recognised that signalling and metabolism are highly interconnected, the underpinning mechanisms of their co-regulation are still largely unknown. Here we designed and acquired proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics experiments in fumarate hydratase (FH) deficient cells and developed a computational modelling approach to identify putative regulatory phosphorylation-sites of metabolic enzymes. We identified previously reported functionally relevant phosphosites and potentially novel regulatory residues in enzymes of the central carbon metabolism. In particular, we show that pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDHA1) enzymatic activity is inhibited by increased phosphorylation in FH-deficient cells. Our work provides a novel approach to investigate how post-translational modifications of enzymes regulate metabolism and could have important implications for understanding the metabolic transformation of FH-deficient cancers.
A central component of malaria control initiatives throughout the world is the use of artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) for treatment of uncomplicated  P. falciparium  malaria. Despite the well-documented clinical efficacy of ACTs, the population-level effects of ACT case management on malaria transmission have not been studied thoroughly until recently. An ideal case study for the population-level effects of artemisinin use can be found in Vietnam, where a major increase of malaria cases in the 1980s was followed by the gradual adoption of artemisinin-based clinical case management. We assembled annual data from Vietnams National Institutes for Malariology, Parasitology, and Entomology showing the degree to which artemisinin therapies were adopted in different provinces, the effort placed on vector control, and the funding available to provincial malaria control programs, from 1991 to 2014. Data on urbanization were also collected for this period. We found that a 10% increase in the artemisinin proportion of treatments procured by a provincial control program corresponded to a 32.8% (95% CI: 27.7  37.5%) decline in estimated malaria cases; the association persisted and the effect size was nearly unchanged if confirmed cases or suspected cases were used. There was no consistent effect of vector control on malaria cases in Vietnam as a whole, nor was any effect found when the data were broken up regionally. The association between urbanization and malaria was generally negative and sometimes statistically significant. This was most pronounced in the central region of Vietnam, where a 10% increase in urbanization corresponded to a 43.3% (95% CI: 21.6  58.9%) decrease in suspected malaria incidence; this association was not statistically significant if confirmed cases or estimated cases were used. The decline of malaria in Vietnam from 1991 to 2014 can largely be attributed to the rapid adoption of artemisinin-based drugs. Recent analyses of aggregated data from Africa have shown that insecticide-treated nets have had the greatest effect on lowering malaria prevalence over the past fifteen years, suggesting that the success of different types of malaria interventions is region specific. Continuing global efforts on malaria elimination should focus on both vector control measures and increased access to artemisinin-combination therapies.
Background  Detailed modelling of the neutral mutational process in cancer cells is crucial for identifying driver mutations and understanding the mutational mechanisms that act during cancer development. The neutral mutational process is very complex: whole-genome analyses have revealed that the mutation rate differs between cancer types, between patients and along the genome depending on the genetic and epigenetic context. Therefore, methods that predict the number of different types of mutations in regions or specific genomic elements must consider local genomic explanatory variables. A major drawback of most methods is the need to average the explanatory variables across the entire region or genomic element. This procedure is particularly problematic if the explanatory variable varies dramatically in the element under consideration.  Results  To take into account the fine scale of the explanatory variables, we model the probabilities of different types of mutations for each position in the genome by multinomial logistic regression. We analyse 505 cancer genomes from 14 different cancer types and compare the performance in predicting mutation rate for both regional based models and site-specific models. We show that for 1000 randomly selected genomic positions, the site-specific model predicts the mutation rate much better than regional based models. We use a forward selection procedure to identify the most important explanatory variables. The procedure identifies site-specific conservation (phyloP), replication timing, and expression level as the best predictors for the mutation rate. Finally, our model confirms and quantifies certain well-known mutational signatures.  Conclusion  We find that our site-specific multinomial regression model outperforms the regional based models. The possibility of including genomic variables on different scales and patient specific variables makes it a versatile framework for studying different mutational mechanisms. Our model can serve as the neutral null model for the mutational process; regions that deviate from the null model are candidates for elements that drive cancer development.
Diet-induced obesity is associated with increased adipose tissue activated macrophage numbers. Yet, how macrophages integrate fatty acid (FA) signals remains unclear. We previously demonstrated that Fyn deficiency (FynKO) protects against high fat diet-induced adipose tissue macrophage accumulation. Herein, we show that inflammatory markers and reactive oxygen species are not induced in FynKO bone marrow-derived macrophages exposed to the saturated FA palmitate, suggesting that Fyn regulates macrophage function in response to FA signals. Saturated palmitate activates Fyn and re-localizes Fyn into the nucleus of RAW264.7, J774 and wild-type bone marrow-derived macrophages. Similarly, Fyn activity is increased in cells of AT stromal vascular fraction of high fat-fed control mice, with Fyn protein being located in the nucleus of these cells. We demonstrate that Fyn modulates palmitate-dependent oxidative stress in macrophages. Moreover, Fyn catalytic activity is necessary for its nuclear re-localization and downstream effects, as Fyn pharmacological inhibition abolishes palmitate-induced Fyn nuclear redistribution and palmitate-dependent increase of oxidative stress markers. Importantly, mono-or polyunsaturated FAs do not activate Fyn, and fail to re-localize Fyn to the nucleus. Together these data demonstrate that macrophages integrate nutritional FA signals via a differential activation of Fyn that distinguishes, at least partly, the effects of saturated versus unsaturated fats.
Differences among hosts, resulting from genetic variation in the immune system or heterogeneity in drug treatment, can impact within-host pathogen evolution. Identifying such interactions can potentially be achieved through genetic association studies. However, extensive and correlated genetic population structure in hosts and pathogens presents a substantial risk of confounding analyses. Moreover, the multiple testing burden of interaction scanning can potentially limit power. To address these problems, we have developed a Bayesian approach for detecting host influences on pathogen evolution that makes use of vast existing data sets of pathogen diversity to improve power and control for stratification. The approach models key processes, including recombination and selection, and identifies regions of the pathogen genome affected by host factors. Using simulations and empirical analysis of drug-induced selection on the HIV-1 genome we demonstrate the power of the method to recover known associations and show greatly improved precision-recall characteristics compared to other approaches. We build a high-resolution map of HLA-induced selection in the HIV-1 genome, identifying novel epitope-allele combinations.
Directed connectivity inference has become a cornerstone in neuroscience to analyze multivariate data from neuroimaging and electrophysiological techniques. Here we propose a non-parametric significance method to test the non-zero values of multivariate autoregressive model to infer interactions in recurrent networks. We use random permutations or circular shifts of the original time series to generate the null-hypothesis distributions. The underlying network model is the same as used in multivariate Granger causality, but our test relies on the autoregressive coefficients instead of error residuals. By means of numerical simulation over multiple network configurations, we show that this method achieves a good control of false positives - type 1 error - and detects existing pairwise connections more accurately than using the standard parametric test for the ratio of error residuals. In practice, our method aims to detect temporal interactions in real neuronal networks with nodes possibly exhibiting redundant activity. As a proof of concept, we apply our method to multiunit activity (MUA) recorded from Utah electrode arrays in a monkey and examine detected interactions between 25 channels. We show that during stimulus presentation our method detects a large number of interactions that cannot be solely explained by the increase in the MUA level.
Discovering the genetic changes underlying species differences is a central goal in evolutionary genetics. However, hybrid crosses between species in mammals often suffer from hybrid sterility, greatly complicating genetic dissection of trait variation. Here we describe a simple, robust and transgene-free technique to make  in vitro  crosses in hybrid mouse embryonic stem cells by inducing random mitotic crossovers with the drug ML216, which inhibits  Bloom syndrome  (BLM). Starting with an interspecific hybrid (between  Mus musculus  and  Mus spretus ) embryonic stem cell line spanning 1.5 million years of divergence, we demonstrate the feasibility of mapping enzymatic differences across species within weeks and the possibility of re-deriving whole mice. Our work shows how  in vitro  crosses can overcome major bottlenecks like hybrid sterility in traditional mouse breeding to address fundamental questions in evolutionary biology.  Impact Statement  By mixing hybrid mouse genomes in stem cells via mitotic recombination, genetic mapping and hybrid mosaic mice can be achieved in weeks, even across species barriers.
Diverse biological systems utilize gene-expression fluctuations (noise) to drive lineage-commitment decisions 1-5 . However, once a commitment is made, noise becomes detrimental to reliable function 6,7  and the mechanisms enabling post-commitment noise suppression are unclear. We used time-lapse imaging and mathematical modeling, and found that, after a noise-driven event, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) strongly attenuated expression noise through a non-transcriptional negative-feedback circuit. Feedback is established by serial generation of RNAs from post-transcriptional splicing, creating a precursor-product relationship where proteins generated from spliced mRNAs auto-deplete their own precursor un-spliced mRNAs. Strikingly, precursor auto-depletion overcomes the theoretical limits on conventional noise suppressionminimizing noise far better than transcriptional auto-repressionand dramatically stabilizes commitment to the active-replication state. This auto-depletion feedback motif may efficiently suppress noise in other systems ranging from detained introns to non-sense mediated decay.
While many evolutionary questions can be answered by short read re-sequencing, presence/absence polymorphisms of genes and/or transposons have been largely ignored in large-scale intraspecific evolutionary studies. To enable the rigorous analysis of such variants, multiple high quality and contiguous genome assemblies are essential. Similarly, while genome assemblies based on short reads have made genomics accessible for non-reference species, these assemblies have limitations due to low contiguity. Long-read sequencers and long-read technologies have ushered in a new era of genome sequencing where the lengths of reads exceed those of most repeats. However, because these technologies are not only costly, but also time and compute intensive, it has been unclear how scalable they are. Here we demonstrate a fast and cost effective reference assembly for an  Arabidopsis thaliana  accession using the USB-sized Oxford Nanopore MinION sequencer and typical consumer computing hardware (4 Cores, 16Gb RAM). We assemble the accession KBS-Mac-74 into 62 contigs with an N50 length of 12.3 Mb covering 100% (119 Mb) of the non-repetitive genome. We demonstrate that the polished KBS-Mac-74 assembly is highly contiguous with BioNano optical genome maps, and of high per-base quality against a likewise polished Pacific Biosciences long-read assembly. The approach we implemented took a total of four days at a cost of less than 1,000 USD for sequencing consumables including instrument depreciation.
DNA replication involves the inherent risk of genome instability, as replisomes invariably encounter DNA lesions or other structures that stall or collapse replication forks during S-phase. In the fission yeast  Schizosaccharomyces pombe , the multi-BRCT domain protein Brc1, which is related to budding yeast Rtt107 and mammalian PTIP, plays an important role in maintaining genome integrity and cell viability when cells experience replication stress. The C-terminal pair of BRCT domains in Brc1 were previously shown to bind phospho-histone H2A (H2A) formed by Rad3/ATR checkpoint kinase at DNA lesions; however, the putative scaffold interactions involving the N-terminal BRCT domains 1-4 of Brc1 have remained obscure. Here we show that these domains bind Rhp18/Rad18, which is an E3 ubiquitin protein ligase that has crucial functions in postreplication repair. A missense allele in BRCT domain 4 of Brc1 disrupts binding to Rhp18 and causes sensitivity to replication stress. Brc1 binding to Rhp18 and H2A are required for the Brc1-overexpression suppression of  smc6-74,  which impairs the Smc5/6 structural maintenance of chromosomes complex required for chromosome integrity and repair of collapsed replication forks. From these findings we propose that Brc1 provides scaffolding functions linking H2A, Rhp18, and Smc5/6 complex at damaged replication forks.
Dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area use glutamate as a cotransmitter. To elucidate the behavioral role of the cotransmission, we targeted the glutamate-recycling enzyme glutaminase (gene  GLS1 ). In mice with a DAT-driven conditional heterozygous (cHET) reduction of GLS1 in their dopamine neurons, dopamine neuron survival and transmission were unaffected, while glutamate cotransmission at phasic firing frequencies was reduced, enabling focusing the cotransmission. DAT GLS1 cHET mice showed normal emotional and motor behaviors, and an unaffected response to acute amphetamine. Strikingly, amphetamine sensitization was reduced and latent inhibition potentiated. These behavioral effects, also seen in global GLS1 HETs with a schizophrenia resilience phenotype, were not seen in mice with an Emx1-driven forebrain reduction affecting most brain glutamatergic neurons. Thus, a reduction in dopamine neuron glutamate cotransmission appears to mediate significant components of the GLS1 HET schizophrenia resilience phenotype, and glutamate cotransmission appears to be important in attribution of motivational salience.
Double-strand breaks (DSBs) result from the attack of both DNA strands by multiple sources, including exposure to ionizing radiation or reactive oxygen species. DSBs can cause abnormal chromosomal rearrangements which are linked to cancer development, and hence represent an important issue. Recent techniques allow the genome-wide mapping of DSBs at high resolution, enabling the comprehensive study of DSB origin. However these techniques are costly and challenging. Hence we devised a computational approach to predict DSBs using the epigenomic and chromatin context, for which public data are available from the ENCODE project. We achieved excellent prediction accuracy ( AUC  = 0.97) at high resolution (&amp;lt; 1 kb), and showed that only chromatin accessibility and H3K4me1 mark were sufficient for highly accurate prediction ( AUC  = 0.95). We also demonstrated the better sensitivity of DSB predictions compared to BLESS experiments. We identified chromatin accessibility, activity and long-range contacts as best predictors. In addition, our work represents the first step toward unveiling the cis -DNA repairing code underlying DSBs, paving the way for future studies of  cis -elements involved in DNA damage and repair.
Drug discovery and subsequent availability of a new breakthrough therapeutic or cure is a compelling example of societal benefit from research advances. These advances are invariably collaborative, involving the contributions of many scientists to a discovery network in which theory and experiment are built upon. To understand such scientific advances, data mining of public and commercial data sources coupled with network analysis can be used as a digital methodology to assemble and analyze component events in the history of a therapeutic. This methodology is extensible beyond the history of therapeutics and its use more generally supports (i) efficiency in exploring the scientific history of a research advance (ii) documenting and understanding collaboration (iii) portfolio analysis, planning and optimization (iv) communication of the societal value of research. As a proof of principle, we have conducted a case study of five anti-cancer therapeutics. We have linked the work of roughly 237,000 authors in 106,000 scientific publications that capture the research crucial for the development of these five therapeutics. We have enriched the content of networks of these therapeutics by annotating them with information on research awards as well as peer review that preceded these awards. Applying retrospective citation discovery, we have identified a core set of publications cited in the networks of all five therapeutics and additional intersections in combinations of networks as well as awards from the National Institutes of Health that supported this research. Lastly, we have mapped these awards to their cognate peer review panels, identifying another layer of collaborative scientific activity that influenced the research represented in these networks.
Due to the large numbers of transcription factors (TFs) and cell types, querying binding profiles of all TF/cell type pairs is not experimentally feasible, owing to constraints in time and resources. To address this issue, we developed a convolutional-recurrent neural network model, called FactorNet, to computationally impute the missing binding data. FactorNet trains on binding data from reference cell types to make accurate predictions on testing cell types by leveraging a variety of features, including genomic sequences, genome annotations, gene expression, and single-nucleotide resolution sequential signals, such as DNase I cleavage. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first deep learning method to study the rules governing TF binding at such a fine resolution. With FactorNet, a researcher can perform a single sequencing assay, such as DNase-seq, on a cell type and computationally impute dozens of TF binding profiles. This is an integral step for reconstructing the complex networks underlying gene regulation. While neural networks can be computationally expensive to train, we introduce several novel strategies to significantly reduce the overhead. By visualizing the neural network models, we can interpret how the model predicts binding which in turn reveals additional insights into regulatory grammar. We also investigate the variables that affect cross-cell type predictive performance to explain why the model performs better on some TF/cell types than others, and offer insights to improve upon this field. Our method ranked among the top four teams in the ENCODE-DREAM  in vivo  Transcription Factor Binding Site Prediction Challenge.
Background  During cancer progression genomes undergo point mutations as well as larger segmental changes. The latter include, among others, segmental deletions duplications, translocations and inversions. The result is a highly complex, patient-specific cancer karyotype. Using high-throughput technologies of deep sequencing and microarrays it is possible to interrogate a cancer genome and produce chromosomal copy number profiles and a list of breakpoints (jumps) relative to the normal genome. This information is very detailed but local, and does not give the overall picture of the cancer genome. One of the basic challenges in cancer genome research is to use such information to infer the cancer karyotype.  We present here an algorithmic approach, based on graph theory and integer linear programming, that receives segmental copy number and breakpoint data as input and produces a cancer karyotype that is most concordant with them. We used simulations to evaluate the utility of our approach, and applied it to real data.  Results  By using a simulation model, we were able to estimate the correctness and robustness of the algorithm in a spectrum of scenarios. Under our base scenario, designed according to observations in real data, the algorithm correctly inferred 69% of the karyotypes. However, when using less stringent correctness metrics that account for incomplete and noisy data, 87% of the reconstructed karyotypes were correct. Furthermore, in scenarios where the data were very clean and complete, accuracy rose to 90%-100%. Some examples of analysis of real data, and the karyotypes reconstructed by our algorithm, are also presented.  Conclusion  While reconstruction of complete, perfect karyotype based on short read data is very hard, a large portion of the reconstruction will still be correct and can provide useful information.
During outbreaks of deadly emerging pathogens (e.g., Ebola, MERS-CoV) and bioterror threats (e.g., smallpox), actively monitoring potentially infected individuals aims to limit disease transmission and morbidity. Guidance issued by CDC on active monitoring was a cornerstone of its response to the West Africa Ebola outbreak. There are limited data on how to balance the costs and performance of this important public health activity. We present a framework that estimates the risks and costs of specific durations of active monitoring for pathogens of significant public health concern. We analyze data from New York Citys Ebola active monitoring program over a 16-month period in 2014-2016. For monitored individuals, we identified unique durations of active monitoring that minimize expected costs for those at low (but not zero) risk and some or high risk: 21 and 31 days, respectively. Extending our analysis to smallpox and MERS-CoV, we found that the optimal length of active monitoring relative to the median incubation period was reduced compared to Ebola due to less variable incubation periods. Active monitoring can save lives but is expensive. Resources can be most effectively allocated by using exposure-risk categories to modify the duration or intensity of active monitoring.
Neurog3 HI  endocrine-committing cells are generated from a population of Sox9 +  mitotic progenitors with only a low level of  Neurog3  transcriptional activity ( Neurog3  TA.LO ). Low-level Neurog3 protein, in  Neurog3  TA.LO  cells, is required to maintain their mitotic endocrine-lineage-primed status. Herein, we describe a  Neurog3 -driven FUCCI cell-cycle reporter ( Neurog3  P2A.FUCCI ) derived from a  Neurog3  BAC transgenic reporter that functions as a loxed cassette acceptor (LCA). In cycling Sox9 +  Neurog3 TA.LO  progenitors, the majority of cells in S-G 2 -M phases have undetectable levels of Neurog3 with increased expression of endocrine progenitor markers, while those in G 1  have low Neurog3 levels with increased expression of endocrine differentiation markers. These findings support a model in which variations in Neurog3 protein levels are coordinated with cell-cycle phase progression in  Neurog3  TA.LO  progenitors with entrance into G 1  triggering a concerted effort, beyond increasing Neurog3 levels, to maintain an endocrine-lineage-primed state by initiating expression of the downstream endocrine differentiation program prior to endocrine-commitment.
During the 1960s, small quantities of radioactive materials were co-disposed with chemical waste at the Little Forest Legacy Site (Sydney, Australia) in three-metre-deep, unlined trenches. Chemical and microbial analyses, including functional and taxonomic information derived from shotgun metagenomics, were collected across a six-week period immediately after a prolonged rainfall event to assess how changing water levels impact upon the microbial ecology and contaminant mobility. Collectively, results demonstrated that oxygen-laden rainwater rapidly altered the redox balance in the trench water, strongly impacting microbial functioning as well as the radiochemistry. Two contaminants of concern, plutonium and americium, were shown to transition from solid-iron-associated species immediately after the initial rainwater pulse, to progressively more soluble moieties as reducing conditions were enhanced. Functional metagenomics revealed the potentially important role that the taxonomically-diverse microbial community played in this transition. In particular, aerobes dominated in the first day followed by an increase of facultative anaerobes/denitrifiers at day four. Towards the mid-end of the sampling period, the functional and taxonomic profiles depicted an anaerobic community distinguished by a higher representation of dissimilatory sulfate reduction and methanogenesis pathways. Our results have important implications to similar near-surface environmental systems in which redox cycling occurs.  Importance  The role of chemical and microbiological factors in mediating the biogeochemistry of groundwaters from trenches used to dispose of radioactive materials during the 1960s is examined in this study. Specifically, chemical and microbial analyses, including functional and taxonomic information derived from shotgun metagenomics, were collected across a six-week period immediately after a prolonged rainfall event to assess how changing water levels influence microbial ecology and contaminant mobility.  Results demonstrate that oxygen-laden rainwater rapidly altered the redox balance in the trench water, strongly impacting microbial functioning as well as the radiochemistry. Two contaminants of concern, plutonium and americium, were shown to transition from solidiron-associated species immediately after the initial rainwater pulse, to progressively more soluble moieties as reducing conditions were enhanced. Functional metagenomics revealed the important role that the taxonomically-diverse microbial community played in this transition. Our results have important implications to similar near-surface environmental systems in which redox cycling occurs.
uring transcription initiation, RNA polymerase (RNAP) binds to promoter DNA, unwinds promoter DNA to form an RNAP-promoter open complex (RPo) containing a single-stranded &quot;transcription bubble,&quot; and selects a transcription start site (TSS). TSS selection occurs at different positions within the promoter region, depending on promoter sequence and initiating-substrate concentration. Variability in TSS selection has been proposed to involve DNA &quot;scrunching&quot; and &quot;antiscrunching,&quot; the hallmarks of which are: (i) forward and reverse movement of the RNAP leading edge, but not trailing edge, relative to DNA, and (ii) expansion and contraction of the transcription bubble. Here, using  in vitro  and  in vivo  protein-DNA photocrosslinking and single-molecule nanomanipulation, we show bacterial TSS selection exhibits both hallmarks of scrunching and anti-scrunching, and we define energetics of scrunching and anti-scrunching. The results establish the mechanism of TSS selection by bacterial RNAP and suggest a general mechanism for TSS selection by bacterial, archaeal, and eukaryotic RNAP.
processes in biology are studied using an ever-increasing number of techniques, each of which brings out unique features of the system. One of the current challenges is to develop systematic approaches for fusing heterogeneous datasets into an integrated view of multivariable dynamics. We demonstrate that heterogeneous data fusion can be successfully implemented within a semi-supervised learning framework that exploits the intrinsic geometry of high-dimensional datasets. We illustrate our approach using a dataset from studies of pattern formation in Drosophila. The result is a continuous trajectory that reveals the joint dynamics of gene expression, subcellular protein localization, protein phosphorylation, and tissue morphogenesis. Our approach can be readily adapted to other imaging modalities and forms a starting point for further steps of data analytics and modeling of biological dynamics.
 E. Coli  AlkB catalyzes the direct dealkylation of various alkylated bases in damaged DNA. The diffusion of molecular Oxygen to the active site in AlkB is an essential step for the oxidative dealkylation activity. Despite detailed studies on the stepwise oxidation mechanism of AlkB, there is no conclusive picture of how O 2  molecules reach the active site of the protein. Yu  et al. (Nature,  439 , 879) proposed the existence of an intramolecular tunnel based on their initial crystal structures of AlkB. We have employed computational simulations to investigate possible migration pathways inside AlkB for O 2  molecules. Extensive molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, including explicit ligand sampling and potential of mean force (PMF) calculations, have been performed to provide a microscopic description of the O 2  delivery pathway in AlkB. Analysis of intramolecular tunnels using the CAVER software indicates two possible pathways for O 2  to diffuse into the AlkB active site. Explicit ligand sampling simulations suggests that only one of these tunnels provides a viable route. The free energy path for an oxygen molecule to travel along each of these tunnels has been determined with AMBER and AMOEBA. Both PMFs indicate passive transport of O 2  from the surface of the protein. However, the inclusion of explicit polarization shows a very large barrier for diffusion of the cosubstrate out of the active site, compared with the nonpolarizable potential. In addition, our results suggest that the mutation of a conserved residue along the tunnel, Y178, has dramatic effects on the dynamics of AlkB and on the transport of O 2  along the tunnel.
Each individual perceives the world in a unique way, but little is known about the genetic basis of variation in sensory perception. Here we investigated natural variation in the development and function of the color vision system of  Drosophila . In the fly eye, the random mosaic of color-detecting R7 photoreceptor subtypes is determined by stochastic expression of the transcription factor Spineless (Ss). Individual R7s randomly choose between Ss ON  or Ss OFF  fates at a ratio of 65:35, resulting in unique patterns but consistent proportions of cell types across genetically identical retinas. In a genome wide association study, we identified a naturally occurring insertion in a regulatory DNA element in the  ss  gene that lowers the ratio of Ss ON  to Ss OFF  cells. This change in photoreceptor fates shifts the innate color preference of flies from green to blue. The genetic variant increases the binding affinity for Klumpfuss (Klu), a zinc finger transcriptional repressor that regulates  ss  expression. Klu is expressed at intermediate levels to determine the normal ratio of Ss ON  to Ss OFF  cells. Thus, binding site affinity and transcription factor levels are finely tuned to regulate stochastic on/off gene expression, setting the ratio of alternative cell fates and ultimately determining color preference.
Background  Economical conversion of lignocellulosic biomass into biofuels and bioproducts is central to the establishment of a robust bioeconomy. This requires a conversion host that is able to both efficiently assimilate the major lignocellulose-derived carbon sources and divert their metabolites toward specific bioproducts.  Results  In this study, the carotenogenic yeast  Rhodosporidium toruloides  was examined for its ability to convert lignocellulose into two non-native sesquiterpenes with biofuel (bisabolene) and pharmaceutical (amorphadiene) applications. We found that  R. toruloides  can efficiently convert a mixture of glucose and xylose from hydrolyzed lignocellulose into these bioproducts, and unlike many conventional production hosts, its growth and productivity were enhanced in lignocellulosic hydrolysates relative to purified substrates. This organism was demonstrated to have superior growth in corn stover hydrolysates prepared by two different pretreatment methods, one using a novel biocompatible ionic liquid (IL) choline -ketoglutarate, which produced 261 mg/L of bisabolene at bench-scale, and the other using an alkaline pretreatment, which produced 680 mg/L of bisabolene in a high gravity fed-batch bioreactor. Interestingly,  R. toruloides  was also observed to assimilate  p- coumaric acid liberated from acylated grass lignin in the IL hydrolysate, a finding we verified with purified substrates.  R. toruloides  was also able to consume several additional compounds with aromatic motifs similar to lignin monomers, suggesting that this organism may have the metabolic potential to convert depolymerized lignin streams alongside lignocellulosic sugars.  Conclusions  This study highlights the natural compatibility of  R. toruloides  with bioprocess conditions relevant to lignocellulosic biorefineries and demonstrates its ability to produce non-native terpenes.
Effective targeting of cancer stem cells (CSCs) requires neutralization of self-renewal and chemoresistance, however these phenotypes are often regulated by distinct molecular mechanisms. Here we report the ability to target both of these phenotypes via CD55, an intrinsic cell surface complement inhibitor, which was identified in a comparative analysis between CSCs and non-CSCs in endometrioid cancer models. In this context, CD55 functions in a complement-independent manner and required lipid raft localization for CSC maintenance and cisplatin resistance. CD55 regulated self-renewal and core pluripotency genes via ROR2/JNK signaling and in parallel cisplatin resistance via LCK signaling, which induced DNA repair genes. Targeting LCK signaling via saracatinib, an inhibitor currently undergoing clinical evaluation, sensitized chemoresistant cells to cisplatin. Collectively, our findings identify CD55 as a unique signaling node that drives self-renewal and therapeutic resistance via a bifurcating signaling axis and provide an opportunity to target both signaling pathways in endometrioid tumors.  SUMMARY  CD55 is a membrane complement regulatory protein that attenuates complement-mediated cytotoxicity. Saygin et al. elucidate a new role for CD55 as a signaling hub for cancer stem cell self-renewal and cisplatin resistance pathways in endometrioid tumors and open a new line of research into chemotherapeutic-refractory cancers.  Abbreviations  GPI: glycophosphatidylinositol  LIME: LCK interacting transmembrane adaptor  PAG: protein associated with glycosphingolipid-enriched microdomains  CSC: cancer stem cell  DAF: decay accelerating protein  LCK: Endometrioid Tumor, ET  CSC: cancer stem cell  mCRP: membrane-bound complement regulatory protein  ROR2: receptor tyrosine kinase like orphan receptor 2  LCK: lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase  JNK: c-Jun N-terminal kinase
 neural coding has been observed in parietal cortex (PC), but its topographical and laminar organization is not well characterized. We used multi-site recording to look for evidence of local clustering and laminar consistency of linear and angular velocity encoding in multi-neuronal spiking activity (MUA) and in the high-frequency (300-900 Hz) component of the local field potential (HF-LFP), believed to reflect local spiking activity. Rats were trained to run many trials on a large circular platform, either to LED-cued goal locations or as a spatial sequence from memory. Tuning to specific self-motion states was observed consistently, and exhibited distinct cortical depth-invariant coding properties. These patterns of collective local and laminar activation during behavior were reactivated in compressed form during post-experience sleep, and temporally coupled to hippocampal sharp wave ripples. Thus, PC neuron motion encoding is consistent across cortical laminae, and this consistency is maintained during memory reactivation.  Highlights  Parietal cortex MUA encodes specific movements coherently across laminae.  This organizational scheme is maintained during subsequent memory reactivation  MUA and HF-LFP showed similar self-motion tuning and memory reactivation dynamics  This establishes the utility of MUA and HF-LFP for human memory reactivation studies
Epidemiological evidence has long associated environmental mutagens with increased cancer risk. However, links between specific mutation-causing processes and the acquisition of individual driver mutations have remained obscure. Here we have used public cancer sequencing data to infer the independent effects of mutation and selection on driver mutation complement. First, we detect associations between a range of mutational processes, including those linked to smoking, ageing, APOBEC and DNA mismatch repair (MMR) and the presence of key driver mutations across cancer types. Second, we quantify differential selection between well-known alternative driver mutations, including differences in selection between distinct mutant residues in the same gene. These results show that while mutational processes play a large role in determining which driver mutations are present in a cancer, the role of selection frequently dominates.
Epigenetic regulation of activity-induced gene expression involves multiple levels of molecular interaction, including histone and DNA modifications, as well as mechanisms of DNA repair. Here we demonstrate that the genome-wide deposition of Inhibitor of growth family member 1 (ING1), which is a central epigenetic regulatory protein, is dynamically regulated in response to activity in primary cortical neurons. ING1 knockdown leads to decreased expression of genes related to synaptic plasticity, including the regulatory subunit of calcineurin,  Ppp3r1 . In addition, ING1 binding at a site upstream of the transcription start site (TSS) of  Ppp3r1  depends on yet another group of neuroepigenetic regulatory proteins, the Piwi-like family, which are also involved in DNA repair. These findings provide new insight into a novel mode of activity-induced gene expression, which involves the interaction between different epigenetic regulatory mechanisms traditionally associated with gene repression and DNA repair.  Author contributions  L.J.L., Q.Z., T.W.B and W.W. designed the experiments. N.K., A.K., X.L., C.D., S.L. and W.W. designed and assembled shRNA constructs. L.J.L., W.W., X.L., C.D., P.R.M., E.Z., and S.L. conducted experiments. Q.Z. and Y.W. analysed ChIP-seq data. L.J.L., Q.Z., and W.W. wrote the paper. All authors reviewed and edited the manuscript.  Conflicts of interest  None.
Eukaryotic cells contain large RNA-protein assemblies referred to as RNP granules, whose assembly is promoted by both traditional protein interactions and intrinsically disordered protein domains. Using RNP granules as an example, we provide evidence for an assembly mechanism of large cellular structures wherein specific protein-protein or protein-RNA interactions act together with promiscuous interactions of intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). This synergistic assembly mechanism illuminates RNP granule assembly, and explains why many components of RNP granules, and other large dynamic assemblies, contain IDRs linked to specific protein-protein or protein-RNA interaction modules. We suggest assemblies based on combinations of specific interactions and promiscuous IDRs are common features of eukaryotic cells.
Exometabolomics enables analysis of metabolite utilization of low molecular weight organic substances by soil isolates. Environmentally-based defined media are needed to examine ecologically relevant patterns of substrate utilization. Here, we describe an approach for the construction of defined media using untargeted characterization of water soluble soil metabolites. To broadly characterize soil metabolites, both liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC/MS) and gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC/MS) were used. With this approach, 96 metabolites were identified, including amino acids, amino acid derivatives, sugars, sugar alcohols, mono- and di-carboxylic acids, osmolytes, nucleobases, and nucleosides. From this pool of metabolites, 25 were quantified. Water soluble organic carbon was fractionated by molecular weight and measured to determine the fraction of carbon accounted for by the quantified metabolites. This revealed that, community structures, these soil metabolites have an uneven quantitative distribution, with a single metabolite, trehalose accounting for 9.9 percent of much like soil microbial the (&amp;lt; 1 kDa) water extractable organic carbon. This quantitative information was used to formulate two soil defined media (SDM), one containing 23 metabolites (SDM1) and one containing 46 (SDM2). To evaluate SDM for supporting the growth of bacteria found at this field site, we examined the growth of 30 phylogenetically diverse soil isolates obtained using standard R2A medium. The simpler SDM1 supported the growth of up to 13 isolates while the more complex SDM2 supported up to 25 isolates. One isolate,  Pseudomonas corrugata  strain FW300-N2E2 was selected for a time-series exometabolomics analysis to investigate SDM1 substrate preferences. Interestingly, it was found that this organism preferred lower-abundance substrates such as guanine, glycine, proline and arginine and glucose and did not utilize the more abundant substrates maltose, mannitol, trehalose and uridine. These results demonstrate the viability and utility of using exometabolomics to construct a tractable environmentally relevant media. We anticipate that this approach can be expanded to other environments to enhance isolation and characterization of diverse microbial communities.  Highlights  LC/MS and GC/MS analyses of soil extracts revealed a diversity of 96 metabolites.  Soil defined media were constructed based on water extractable soil metabolomics data.  The defined media supported the growth of 25 out of 30 bacterial isolates.  Exometabolomics demonstrated preferential consumption of amino acids for one isolate.  These media can be used to understand environmentally relevant microbial substrate preferences.  Abbreviations  DOM dissolved organic matter; SOM soil organic matter; WEOC water extractable organic carbon; LMWOS low molecular weight organic substances; SDM(1/2) soil defined media (1 and 2); R2A Reasoners 2A agar medium; ORFRC Oak Ridge Field Research Center; LC/MS liquid chromatography mass spectrometry; GC/MS gas chromatography/ mass spectrometry; TOC total organic carbon; HILIC hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography
Extracellular netrin-1 and its receptor DCC promote axon branching in developing cortical neurons. Netrin-dependent morphogenesis is preceded by multimerization of DCC, activation of FAK and Src family kinases, and increases in exocytic vesicle fusion, yet how these occurrences are linked is unknown. Here we demonstrate that TRIM9-dependent ubiquitination of DCC blocks the interaction with and phosphorylation of FAK. Upon netrin-1 stimulation TRIM9 promotes DCC multimerization, but TRIM9-dependent ubiquitination of DCC is reduced, which promotes an interaction with FAK and subsequent FAK activation. We found that inhibition of FAK activity blocks elevated frequencies of exocytosis  in vitro  and elevated axon branching  in vitro  and  in vivo.  Although FAK inhibition decreased SNARE-mediated exocytosis, assembled SNARE complexes and vesicles adjacent to the plasma membrane were increased, suggesting a novel role for FAK in the progression from assembled SNARE complexes to vesicle fusion in developing murine neurons.  Abbreviations used in this paper  DCC: Deleted in Colorectal Cancer  TRIM: Tripartite Motif  SFK: src family kinase  DCC KR : non ubiquitinatable DCC mutant  VAMP: vesicle associated membrane protein  TRIM9RING: TRIM9 lacking the ubiquitin ligase RING domain  TRIM9SPRY: TRIM9 variant lacking the DCC-binding SPRY domain  TIRF: Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence  pY: phosphotyrosine  FAKi: pharmacological FAK inhibitor 14  FRNK: FAK related non-kinase  STX-1A: syntaxin 1A  IP: immunoprecipitate
Faces convey rich information including identity, gender and expression. Current neural models of face processing suggest a dissociation between the processing of invariant facial aspects such as identity and gender, that engage the fusiform face area (FFA) and the processing of changeable aspects, such as expression and eye gaze, that engage the posterior superior temporal sulcus face area (pSTS-FA). Recent studies report a second dissociation within this network such that the pSTS-FA, but not the FFA, shows much stronger response to dynamic than static faces. The aim of the current study was to test a unified model that accounts for these two major functional characteristics of the neural face network. In an fMRI experiment, we presented static and dynamic faces while subjects judged an invariant (gender) or a changeable facial aspect (expression). We found that the pSTS-FA was more engaged in processing dynamic than static faces and changeable than invariant facial aspects, whereas the OFA and FFA showed similar response across all four conditions. Our results reveal no dissociation between the processing of changeable and invariant facial aspects, but higher sensitivity to the processing of changeable facial aspects by the motion-sensitive face area in the superior temporal sulcus.
Faithful cellular differentiation requires precise coordination of changes in gene expression. However, the relative contributions of transcriptional and translational regulation during human cellular differentiation are unclear. Here, we induced forebrain neuronal differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and characterized genomewide RNA and translation levels during neurogenesis. We find that thousands of genes change at the translation level across differentiation without a corresponding change in RNA level. Specifically, we identify mTOR complex 1 signaling as a key driver for elevated translation of translation-related genes in hESCs. In contrast, translational repression in active neurons is mediated by transcript 3 UTRs, through regulatory sequences. Together, our findings identify a functional role for the dramatic 3 UTR extensions that occur during brain development, and provide insights to interpret genetic variants in post-transcriptional control factors that influence neurodevelopmental disorders and diseases.
Fearful faces convey threat cues whose meaning is contextualized by eye gaze: While averted gaze is congruent with facial fear (both signal avoidance), direct gaze is incongruent with it, as direct gaze signals approach. We have previously shown using fMRI that the amygdala is engaged more strongly by fear with averted gaze, which has been found to be processed more efficiently, during brief exposures. However, the amygdala also responds more to fear with direct gaze during longer exposures. Here we examined previously unexplored brain oscillatory responses to characterize the neurodynamics and connectivity during brief (250 ms) and longer (883 ms) exposures of fearful faces with direct or averted eye gaze. We replicated the exposure time by gaze direction interaction in fMRI (N=23), and observed greater early phase locking to averted-gaze fear (congruent threat signal) with MEG (N=60) in a network of face processing regions, with both brief and longer exposures. Phase locking to direct-gaze fear (incongruent threat signal) then increased significantly for brief exposures at 350 ms, and at 700 ms for longer exposures. Our results characterize the stages of congruent and incongruent facial threat signal processing and show that stimulus exposure strongly affects the onset and duration of these stages.
Felsensteins article describing the application of the bootstrap to evolutionary trees, is one of the most cited papers of all time. That statistical method, based on resampling and replications, is used extensively to assess the robustness of phylogenetic inferences. However, increasing numbers of sequences are now available for a wide variety of species, and phylogenies with hundreds or thousands of taxa are becoming routine. In that framework, Felsensteins bootstrap tends to yield very low supports, especially on deep branches. We propose a revised version, in which the presence of inferred branches in replications is measured using a gradual transfer distance, as opposed to the original version using a binary presence/absence index. The resulting supports are higher, while not inducing falsely supported branches. Our method is applied to large simulation, mammal and HIV datasets, for which it reveals the phylogenetic signal, while Felsensteins bootstrap fails to do so.
Fitness landscapes map genotypes to organismal fitness. Their topography depends on how mutational effects interactepistasisand is important for understanding evolutionary processes such as speciation, the rate of adaptation, the advantage of recombination, and predictability versus stochasticity of evolution. The growing amount of empirical data has made it possible to better test landscape models empirically. We argue that this endeavor will benefit from the development and use of meaningful null models against which to compare more complex models. Here we develop statistical and computational methods for fitting fitness data from mutation combinatorial networks to three simple models: additive, multiplicative and stickbreaking. We employ a Bayesian framework for doing model selection. Using simulations, we demonstrate that our methods work and we explore their statistical performance: bias, error, and the power to discriminate among models. We then illustrate our approach and its flexibility by analyzing several previously published datasets. An R-package that implements our methods is available in the CRAN repository under the name  Stickbreaker. 
Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy (FCS) has been previously used to investigate peptide and protein binding to lipid membranes, as it allows for very low amounts of sample, short measurement times and equilibrium binding conditions. Labeling only one of the binding partners however comes with certain drawbacks, as it relies on identifying binding events by a change in diffusion coefficient. Since peptide and protein aggregation can obscure specific binding and since non-stoichiometric binding necessitates the explicit choice of a statistical distribution for the number of bound ligands, we additionally label the liposomes and perform dual-color Fluorescence Cross-Correlation Spectroscopy (dcFCCS). We develop a theoretical framework showing that dcFCCS amplitudes allow calculation of the degree of ligand binding and the concentration of unbound ligand, leading to a binding model-independent binding curve. As the degree of labeling of the ligands does not factor into the measured quantities, it is permissible to mix labeled and unlabeled ligand, thereby extending the range of usable protein concentrations and accessible dissociation constants  K D  . The total protein concentration, but not the fraction of labeled protein needs to be known. In this work, we apply our dcFCCS analysis scheme to Sar1p, a protein of the COPII complex, which binds major-minor-mix liposomes. A Langmuir isotherm model yields  K D   = (2.11.1) M  as the single site dissociation constant. The dual-color FCCS framework presented here is highly versatile for biophysical analysis of binding interactions. It may be applied to many types of fluorescently labeled ligands and small diffusing particles, including nanodiscs and liposomes containing membrane protein receptors.
Fluorescent fusion proteins open a direct and unique window onto protein function. However, they also introduce the risk of perturbation of the function of the native protein. Successful applications of fluorescent fusions therefore rely on a careful assessment and minimization of the side effects. Such insight, however, is still lacking for many applications of fluorescent fusions. This is particularly relevant in the study of the internal dynamics of motor protein complexes, where both the chemical and mechanical reaction coordinates can be affected. Fluorescent proteins fused to the  stator  of the bacterial flagellar motor (BFM) complex have previously been used to successfully unveil the internal subunit dynamics of the motor. Here we report the effects of three different fluorescent proteins fused to the stator, all of which altered BFM behavior. The torque generated by individual stators was reduced while their stoichiometry in the complex remained unaffected. MotB fusions decreased the rotation-direction switching frequency of single motors and induced a novel BFM behavior: a bias-dependent asymmetry in the speed attained in the two rotation directions. All these effects could be mitigated by the insertion of a linker at the fusion point. These findings provide a quantitative account of the effects of fluorescent fusions on BFM dynamics and their alleviationnew insights that advance the use of fluorescent fusions to probe the dynamics of protein complexes.  Author summary  Much of what is known about the biology of proteins was discovered by fusing them to fluorescent proteins that allow detection of their location. But the label comes at a cost: the presence of the tag can alter the behavior of the protein of interest in unforeseen, yet biologically relevant ways. These side effects limit the depth to which fluorescent proteins can be used to probe protein function. One of the systems that has been successfully studied with fluorescent fusions for which these effects have not been addressed are dynamic protein complexes that carry out mechanical work. We examined how fluorescent proteins fused to a component of the bacterial flagellar motor complex impacts its function. Our findings show that the fusion proteins altered biologically relevant dynamical properties of the motor, including induction of a novel mechanical behavior, and demonstrate an approach to alleviate this. These results advance our ability to dissect the bacterial flagellar motor, and the internal dynamics of protein complexes in general, with fluorescent fusion proteins while causing minimal perturbation.
Background  One of the main challenges in metagenomics is the identification of microorganisms in clinical and environmental samples. While an extensive and heterogeneous set of computational tools is available to classify microorganisms using whole genome shotgun sequencing data, comprehensive comparisons of these methods are limited. In this study, we use the largest (n=35) to date set of laboratory-generated and simulated controls across 846 species to evaluate the performance of eleven metagenomics classifiers. We also assess the effects of filtering and combining tools to reduce the number of false positives.  Results  Tools were characterized on the basis of their ability to (1) identify taxa at the genus, species, and strain levels, (2) quantify relative abundance measures of taxa, and (3) classify individual reads to the species level. Strikingly, the number of species identified by the eleven tools can differ by over three orders of magnitude on the same datasets. However, various strategies can ameliorate taxonomic misclassification, including abundance filtering, ensemble approaches, and tool intersection. Indeed, leveraging tools with different heuristics is beneficial for improved precision. Nevertheless, these strategies were often insufficient to completely eliminate false positives from environmental samples, which are especially important where they concern medically relevant species and where customized tools may be required.  Conclusions  The results of this study provide positive controls, titrated standards, and a guide for selecting tools for metagenomic analyses by comparing ranges of precision and recall. We show that proper experimental design and analysis parameters, including depth of sequencing, choice of classifier or classifiers, database size, and filtering, can reduce false positives, provide greater resolution of species in complex metagenomic samples, and improve the interpretation of results.
Background  Tamoxifen (TAM) has recently been shown to cause acute gastric atrophy and metaplasia in mice. We have previously demonstrated that the outcome of  Helicobacter felis  infection, which induces similar gastric lesions in mice, is altered by deletion of specific NF-B subunits.  Nfkb1  -/-  mice developed more severe gastric atrophy than wild-type (WT) mice 6 weeks after  H. felis  infection. In contrast,  Nfkb2  -/-  mice were protected from this pathology. We therefore hypothesized that gastric lesions induced by TAM may be similarly regulated by signaling via NF-B subunits.  Methods  Groups of 5 female C57BL/6 (WT),  Nfkb1  -/- ,  Nfkb2  -/-  and  c-Rel  -/-  mice were administered 150mg/kg TAM by IP injection. 72 hours later, gastric corpus tissues were taken for quantitative histological assessment. In addition, groups of 6 female WT and  Nfkb1  -/-  mice were exposed to 12Gy -irradiation. Gastric epithelial apoptosis was quantified 6 and 48 hours after irradiation.  Results  TAM induced gastric epithelial lesions in all strains of mice, but this was more severe in  Nfkb1  -/-  mice than WT mice.  Nfkb1  -/-  mice exhibited more severe parietal cell loss than WT mice, had increased gastric epithelial expression of Ki67 and had an exaggerated gastric epithelial DNA damage response as quantified by H2AX. To determine investigate whether the difference in gastric epithelial DNA damage response of  Nfkb1  -/-  mice was unique to TAM induced DNA damage, or a generic consequence of DNA damage, we also assessed gastric epithelial apoptosis following -irradiation. 6 hours after -irradiation, gastric epithelial apoptosis was increased in the gastric corpus and antrum of  Nfkb1  -/-  mice.  Conclusions  NF-B1 mediated signaling regulates the development of gastric mucosal pathology following TAM administration. This is associated with an exaggerated gastric epithelial DNA damage response. This aberrant response appears to reflect a more generic sensitization of the gastric mucosa of  Nfkb1  -/-  mice to DNA damage.
Predicting which substances are suitable for consumption during foraging is critical for animals to survive. While food-seeking behavior is extensively studied, the neural circuit mechanisms underlying avoidance of potentially poisonous substances remain poorly understood. Here we examined the role of the insular cortex (IC) to central amygdala (CeA) circuit in the establishment of such avoidance behavior. Using anatomic tracing approaches combined with optogenetics-assisted circuit mapping, we found that the gustatory region of the IC sends direct excitatory projections to the lateral division of the CeA (CeL), making monosynaptic excitatory connections with distinct populations of CeL neurons. Specific inhibition of neurotransmitter release from the CeL-projecting IC neurons prevented mice from acquiring the no-go response, while leaving the go response largely unaffected in a tastant (sucrose/quinine)-reinforced go/no-go task. Furthermore, selective activation of the IC-CeL pathway with optogenetics drove unconditioned lick suppression in thirsty animals, induced aversive responses, and was sufficient to instruct conditioned action suppression in response to a cue predicting the optogenetic activation. These results indicate that activity in the IC-CeL circuit is necessary for establishing anticipatory avoidance responses to an aversive tastant, and is also sufficient to drive learning of such anticipatory avoidance. This function of the IC-CeL circuit is likely important for guiding avoidance of substances with unpleasant tastes during foraging in order to minimize the chance of being poisoned.  Significance Statement  The ability to predict which substances are suitable for consumption is critical for survival. Here we found that activity in the insular cortex (IC) to central amygdala (CeA) circuit is necessary for establishing avoidance responses to an unpleasant tastant, and is also sufficient to drive learning of such avoidance responses. These results suggest that the IC-CeA circuit is critical for behavioral inhibition in anticipation of potentially poisonous substances during foraging.
Conflict of interest  The authors declare no conflict of interest.  Short summary  Fermentation coupled to sulfate reduction is a globally important process for the remineralization of organic carbon in marine sediments. The present study uses long-term, replicated continuous culture bioreactors and meta-omics to investigate the ecophysiology of the involved microbial populations at an unprecedented resolution. We reveal complex trophic networks, in which fermenters and sulfate reducers coexist with nitrate- and oxygen respirers, we indicate strategies and niches of the microbial populations, and describe a novel and widespread, yet uncultured fermentative organism. These insights are crucial to understand fermentation coupled to sulfate reduction and relevant to assess microbial dynamics and community-level responses in coastal ecosystems.  For the anaerobic remineralization of organic matter in marine sediments, sulfate reduction coupled to fermentation plays a key role. Here, we enriched sulfate-reducing/fermentative communities from intertidal sediments under defined conditions in continuous culture. We transiently exposed the cultures to oxygen or nitrate twice daily and investigated the community response. Chemical measurements, provisional genomes and transcriptomic profiles revealed trophic networks of microbial populations. Sulfate reducers coexisted with facultative nitrate reducers or aerobes enabling the community to adjust to nitrate or oxygen pulses. Exposure to oxygen and nitrate impacted the community structure, but did not suppress fermentation or sulfate reduction as community functions, highlighting their stability under dynamic conditions. The most abundant sulfate reducer in all cultures, related to  Desulfotignum balticum , appeared to have coupled acetate oxidation to sulfate reduction. We described a novel representative of the widespread uncultured phylum  Candidatus  Fermentibacteria (formerly candidate division Hyd24-12). For this strictly anaerobic, obligate fermentative bacterium, we propose the name  Ca.  Sabulitectum silens and identify it as a partner of sulfate reducers in marine sediments. Overall, we provide insights into the metabolic network of fermentative and sulfate-reducing microbial populations, their niches, and adaptations to a dynamic environment.
Formaldehyde crosslinking underpins many of the most commonly used experimental approaches in the chromatin field, especially in capturing site-specific protein-DNA interactions. Extending such assays to assess the stability and binding kinetics of protein-DNA interactions is more challenging, requiring absolute measurements with a relatively high degree of physical precision. We previously described an experimental framework called CLK, which uses time-dependent formaldehyde crosslinking data to extract chromatin binding kinetic parameters. Many aspects of formaldehyde behavior in cells are unknown or undocumented, however, and could potentially impact analyses of CLK data. Here we report biochemical results that better define the properties of formaldehyde crosslinking in budding yeast cells. These results have the potential to inform interpretations of standard chromatin assays including chromatin immunoprecipitation, and the chemical complexity we uncovered resulted in the development of an improved method for measuring binding kinetics using the CLK approach. Optimum conditions included an increased formaldehyde concentration and more robust glycine quench conditions. Notably, we find that formaldehyde crosslinking rates can vary dramatically for different protein-DNA interactions in vivo. Some interactions were crosslinked much faster than the time scale for macromolecular interaction, making them suitable for kinetic analysis. For other interactions, we find the crosslinking reaction occurred on the same time scale or slower than binding dynamics; for these it was in some cases possible to compute the in vivo equilibrium-binding constant but not on- and off-rates for binding. Selected TATA-binding protein-promoter interactions displayed dynamic behavior on the minute to several minutes time scale.
Formins are a conserved group of proteins that nucleate and processively elongate actin filaments. Among them, the formin homology domain-containing protein (FHOD) family of formins contributes to contractility of striated muscle and cell motility in several contexts. However, the mechanisms by which they carry out these functions remain poorly understood. Unlike other formins, mammalian FHOD1 and FHOD3 do not accelerate actin assembly  in vitro , and have instead been suggested to act as barbed end cappers or bundlers. Here, we show that purified  Drosophila  Fhod, in contrast with the mammalian homologues, potently accelerates actin assembly by nucleation. We found that Fhod binds tightly to barbed ends, where it slows elongation in the absence of profilin and allows elongation in the presence of profilin. Fhod protects barbed ends from capping protein, but dissociates from barbed ends relatively quickly. Finally, we used cosedimentation assays to determine that Fhod binds the sides of actin filaments and bundles filaments. This work establishes that Fhod shares the capacity of other formins to nucleate and bundle actin filaments, but is notably less effective at processively elongating barbed ends.
Forward genetic screening of mutants using firefly luciferase ( LUC ) reporter gene became a standard practice in plant research. Such screenings frequently identified alleles of  CPL1  (Carboxyl-terminal Phosphatase-Like 1) regardless of promoters or pathways studied. Expression of the corresponding endogenous genes often shows the minimal difference between wild type and  cpl1.  Here we show that the  LUC  coding sequence is responsible for the high expression in  cpl1,  using a classical  RD29a-LUC . Deletion of the  LUC  3-UTR did not change hyperactivation of  LUC  in  cpl1.  However, a codon-modified  LUC  ( LUC2 ) produced similar expression levels both in wild type and in  cpl1 . These results indicate that the coding region of  LUC  is responsible for the  cpl1 -specific  LUC  overexpression uncoupled with the expression of the endogenous counterpart.
Friedreichs ataxia (FRDA), the most common inherited ataxia, is caused by recessive mutations that reduce the levels of frataxin (FXN), a mitochondrial iron binding protein. We developed an inducible mouse model of  Fxn  deficiency that enabled us to control the onset and progression of disease phenotypes by the modulation of  Fxn  levels. Systemic knockdown of  Fxn  in adult mice led to multiple phenotypes paralleling those observed in human patients across multiple organ systems. By reversing knockdown after clinical features appear, we were able to determine to what extent observed phenotypes represent reversible cellular dysfunction. Remarkably, upon restoration of near wild-type FXN levels, we observed significant recovery of function, associated pathology and transcriptomic dysregulation even after substantial motor dysfunction and pathology were observed. This model will be of broad utility in therapeutic development and in refining our understanding of the relative contribution of reversible cellular dysfunction at different stages in disease.
Functional brain connectivity is the co-occurrence of brain activity in different areas during resting and while doing tasks. The data of interest are multivariate timeseries measured simultaneously across brain parcels using resting-state fMRI (rfMRI). We analyze functional connectivity using two heteroscedasticity models. Our first model is low-dimensional and scales linearly in the number of brain parcels. Our second model scales quadratically. We apply both models to data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) comparing connectivity between short and conventional sleepers. We find stronger functional connectivity in short than conventional sleepers in brain areas consistent with previous findings. This might be due to subjects falling asleep in the scanner. Consequently, we recommend the inclusion of average sleep duration as a covariate to remove unwanted variation in rfMRI studies. A power analysis using the HCP data shows that a sample size of 40 detects 50% of the connectivity at a false discovery rate of 20%. We provide implementations using R and the probabilistic programming language Stan.
Fundamental to biological decision-making is the ability to generate bimodal expression patterns where two alternate expression states simultaneously exist. Here, we use a combination of single-cell analysis and mathematical modeling to examine the sources of bimodality in the transcriptional program controlling HIVs fate decision between active replication and viral latency. We find that the HIV Tat protein manipulates the intrinsic toggling of HIVs promoter, the LTR, to generate bimodal ON-OFF expression, and that transcriptional positive feedback from Tat shifts and expands the regime of LTR bimodality. This result holds for both minimal synthetic viral circuits and full-length virus. Strikingly, computational analysis indicates that the Tat circuits non-cooperative non-latching feedback architecture is optimized to slow the promoters toggling and generate bimodality by stochastic extinction of Tat. In contrast to the standard Poisson model, theory and experiment show that non-latching positive feedback substantially dampens the inverse noise-mean relationship to maintain stochastic bimodality despite increasing mean-expression levels. Given the rapid evolution of HIV, the presence of a circuit optimized to robustly generate bimodal expression appears consistent with the hypothesis that HIVs decision between active replication and latency provides a viral fitness advantage. More broadly, the results suggest that positive-feedback circuits may have evolved not only for signal amplification but also for robustly generating bimodality by decoupling expression fluctuations (noise) from mean expression levels.
G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest and most diverse group of membrane receptors in eukaryotes, and detects a wide array of physiological cues in the human body. We describe a new molecular device that couples CRISPR-Cas9 programmed genome regulation to natural and synthetic extracellular signals via GPCRs. The design of our synthetic device, named CRISPR ChaCha, displays superior performance over an architecture proposed by the previously reported Tango system. Using a parsimonious mathematical model and gene-reporter assays, we find that CRISPR ChaCha can recruit and activate multiple Cas9 molecules for each GPCR molecule. We also characterize key molecular features that modulate CRISPR ChaCha performance. We adopt the design to diverse GPCRs that sense synthetic and natural ligands including chemokines, mitogens, and fatty acids, and observe efficient conversion of signals to customizable genetic programs in mammalian cells, including regulation of endogenous genes. The new class of CRISPR-coupled GPCRs provides a robust and efficient platform for engineering cells with novel behaviors in response to the diverse GPCR ligand repertoire.
Background  Gene regulatory variation has been proposed to play an important role in the adaptation of plants to environmental stress. In the central highlands of Mexico, farmer selection has generated a unique group of maize landraces adapted the challenges of the highland niche. In this study, gene expression in Mexican highland maize and a reference maize breeding line were compared to identify evidence of regulatory variation in stress-related genes. It was hypothesised that local adaptation in Mexican highland maize would be associated with a transcriptional signature observable even under benign conditions.  Methods  Allele specific expression analysis was performed using the seedling-leaf transcriptome of an F1 individual generated from the cross between the highland adapted Mexican landrace Palomero Toluqueo and the reference line B73, grown under benign conditions. Results were compared with a published dataset describing the transcriptional response of B73 seedlings to cold, heat, salt and UV treatments.  Results  A total of 2386 genes were identified to show allele specific expression. Of these, 277 showed an expression difference between Palomero Toluqueo and B73 alleles that mirrored the response of B73 cold, heat, salt and/or UV treatments, and, as such, were considered to display a constitutive stress response. Constitutive stress response candidates included genes associated with plant hormone signaling and a number of transcription factors. Construction of a gene co-expression network revealed further signaling and stress-related genes to be among the potential targets of the transcription factors candidates.  Discussion  Constitutive activation of responses may represent the best strategy when stresses are severe but predictable. Expression differences observed here between PT and B73 alleles indicate the presence of  cis -acting regulatory variation linked to stress-related genes in PT. Considered alongside gene annotation and population data, allele specific expression analysis of plants grown under benign conditions provides an attractive strategy to identify functional variation potentially linked to local adaptation.
Background  Gene set enrichment analysis and overrepresentation analyses are commonly used methods to determine the biological processes affected by a differential expression experiment. This approach requires biologically relevant gene sets, which are currently curated manually, limiting their availability and accuracy in many organisms without extensively curated resources. New feature learning approaches can now be paired with existing data collections to directly extract functional gene sets from big data.  Results  Here we introduce a method to identify perturbed processes. In contrast with methods that use curated gene sets, this approach uses signatures extracted from public expression data. We first extract expression signatures from public data using ADAGE, a neural network-based feature extraction approach. We next identify signatures that are differentially active under a given treatment. Our results demonstrate that these signatures represent biological processes that are perturbed by the experiment. Because these signatures are directly learned from data without supervision, they can identify uncurated or novel biological processes. We implemented ADAGE signature analysis for the bacterial pathogen  Pseudomonas aeruginosa . For the convenience of different user groups, we implemented both an R package ( ADAGEpath ) and a web server (http:// adage.greenelab.com ) to run these analyses. Both are open-source to allow easy expansion to other organisms or signature generation methods. We applied ADAGE signature analysis to an example dataset in which wild-type and  anr  mutant cells were grown as biofilms on the Cystic Fibrosis genotype bronchial epithelial cells. We mapped active signatures in the dataset to KEGG pathways and compared with pathways identified using GSEA. The two approaches generally return consistent results; however, ADAGE signature analysis also identified a signature that revealed the molecularly supported link between the MexT regulon and Anr.  Conclusions  We designed ADAGE signature analysis to perform gene set analysis using data-defined functional gene signatures. This approach addresses an important gap for biologists studying non-traditional model organisms and those without extensive curated resources available. We built both an R package and web server to provide ADAGE signature analysis to the community.
Genetic reference panels are widely used to map complex, quantitative traits in model organisms. We have generated new high-resolution genetic maps of 259 mouse inbred strains from recombinant inbred strain panels (C57BL/6J x DBA/2J, ILS/IbgTejJ x ISS/IbgTejJ, C57BL/6J x A/J) and chromosome substitution strain panels (C57BL/6J-Chr#&amp;lt;A/J&amp;gt;, C57BL/6J-Chr#&amp;lt;PWD/Ph&amp;gt;, C57BL/6JChr#&amp;lt;MSM/Ms&amp;gt;). We genotyped all samples using the Affymetrix Mouse Diversity Array with an average inter-marker spacing of 4.3kb. The new genetic maps provide increased precision in the localization of recombination breakpoints compared to the previous maps. Although the strains were presumed to be fully inbred, we found residual heterozygosity in 40% of individual mice from five of the six panels. We also identified  de novo  deletions and duplications, in homozygous or heterozygous state, ranging in size from 21kb to 8.4Mb. Almost twothirds (46 out of 76) of these deletions overlap exons of protein coding genes and may have phenotypic consequences. Twenty-nine putative gene conversions were identified in the chromosome substitution strains. We find that gene conversions are more likely to occur in regions where the homologous chromosomes are more similar. The raw genotyping data and genetic maps of these strain panels are available at http://churchill-lab.jax.org/website/MDA.
Genetic studies of familial schizophrenia in Finland have observed significant associations with a group of biologically related genes,  DISC1, NDE1, NDEL1 ,  PDE4B  and  PDE4D,  the DISC1 network. Here, we utilize gene expression and psychoactive medication use data to study their biological consequences and potential treatment implications. Gene expression levels were determined in 64 individuals from 18 families, whilst prescription medication information has been collected over a ten-year period for 931 affected individuals. We demonstrate that the  NDE1  SNP rs2242549 associates with significant changes in gene expression for 2,908 probes (2,542 genes), of which 794 probes (719 genes) were replicable. A significant number of the genes altered were predicted targets of microRNA-484 (p=3.010 8 ), located on a non-coding exon of  NDE1.  Variants within the  NDE1  locus also displayed significant genotype by gender interaction to early cessation of psychoactive medications metabolized by CYP2C19. Furthermore, we demonstrate that miR-484 can affect the expression of  CYP2C19  in a cell culture system. Thus, variation at the  NDE1  locus may alter risk of mental illness, in part through modification of miR-484, and such modification alters treatment response to specific psychoactive medications, leading to the potential for use of this locus in targeting treatment.
Genetic variation in natural populations represents the raw material for phenotypic diversity. Species-wide characterization of genetic variants is crucial to have a deeper insight into the genotype-phenotype relationship. With the advent of new sequencing strategies and more recently the release of long-read sequencing platforms, it is now possible to explore the genetic diversity of any non-model organisms, representing a fundamental resource for biological research. In the frame of population genomic surveys, a first step is evidently to obtain the complete sequence and high quality assembly of a reference genome. Here, we completely sequenced and assembled a reference genome of the non-conventional  Dekkera bruxellensis  yeast. While this species is a major cause of wine spoilage, it paradoxically contributes to the specific flavor profile of some Belgium beers. In addition, an extreme karyotype variability is observed across natural isolates, highlighting that  D. bruxellensis  genome is very dynamic. The whole genome of the  D. bruxellensis  UMY321 isolate was sequenced using a combination of Nanopore long-read and Illumina short-read sequencing data. We generated the most complete and contiguous  de novo  assembly of  D. bruxellensis  to date and obtained a first glimpse into the genomic variability within this species by comparing the sequences of several isolates. This genome sequence is therefore of high value for population genomic surveys and represents a reference to study genome dynamic in this yeast species.
Identification of synteny between genomes of closely related species is an important aspect of comparative genomics. However, it is unknown to what extent draft assemblies lead to errors in such analysis. To investigate this, we fragmented genome assemblies of model nematodes to various extents and conducted synteny identification and downstream analysis. We first show that synteny between species can be underestimated up to 40% and find disagreements between popular tools that infer synteny blocks. This inconsistency and further demonstration of erroneous gene ontology enrichment tests throws into question the robustness of previous synteny analysis when gold standard genome sequences remain limited. In addition, determining the true evolutionary relationship is compromised by assembly improvement using a reference guided approach with a closely related species. Annotation quality, however, has minimal effect on synteny if the assembled genome is highly contiguous. Our results highlight the need for gold standard genome assemblies for synteny identification and accurate downstream analysis.  Author summary  Genome assemblies across all domains of life are currently produced routinely. Initial analysis of any new genome usually includes annotation and comparative genomics. Synteny provides a framework in which conservation of homologous genes and gene order is identified between genomes of different species. The availability of human and mouse genomes paved the way for algorithm development in large-scale synteny mapping, which eventually became an integral part of comparative genomics. Synteny analysis is regularly performed on assembled sequences that are fragmented, neglecting the fact that most methods were developed using complete genomes. Here, we systematically evaluate this interplay by inferring synteny in genome assemblies with different degrees of contiguation. As expected, our investigation reveals that assembly quality can drastically affect synteny analysis, from the initial synteny identification to downstream analysis. Importantly, we found that improving a fragmented assembly using synteny with the genome of a related species can be dangerous, as this  a priori  assumes a potentially false evolutionary relationship between the species. The results presented here re-emphasize the importance of gold standard genomes to the science community, and should be achieved given the current progress in sequencing technology.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of SNPs responsible for variation in human quantitative traits. However, genome-wide-significant associations often fail to replicate across independent cohorts, in apparent inconsistency with their apparent strong effects in discovery cohorts. This limited success of replication raises pervasive questions about the utility of the GWAS field. We identify all 332 studies of quantitative traits from the NHGRI-EBI GWAS Database with attempted replication. We find that the majority of studies provide insufficient data to evaluate replication rates. The remaining papers replicate significantly worse than expected ( p  &amp;lt; 10 14 ), even when adjusting for regression-to-the-mean of effect size between discovery- and replication-cohorts termed the Winners Curse ( p  &amp;lt; 10 16 ). We show this is due in part to misreporting replication cohort-size as a maximum number, rather than per-locus one. In 39 studies accurately reporting per-locus cohort-size for attempted replication of 707 loci in samples with similar ancestry, replication rate matched expectation (predicted 458, observed 457,  p  = 0.94). In contrast, ancestry differences between replication and discovery (13 studies, 385 loci) cause the most highly-powered decile of loci to replicate worse than expected, due to difference in linkage disequilibrium.  Author Summary  The majority of associations between common genetic variation and human traits come from genome-wide association studies, which have analyzed millions of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in millions of samples. These kinds of studies pose serious statistical challenges to discovering new associations. Finite resources restrict the number of candidate associations that can brought forward into validation samples, introducing the need for a significance threshold. This threshold creates a phenomenon called the Winners Curse, in which candidate associations close to the discovery threshold are more likely to have biased overestimates of the variants true association in the sampled population. We survey all human quantitative trait association studies that validated at least one signal. We find the majority of these studies do not publish sufficient information to actually support their claims of replication. For studies that did, we computationally correct the Winners Curse and evaluate replication performance. While all variants combined replicate significantly less than expected, we find that the subset of studies that (1) perform both discovery and replication in samples of the same ancestry; and (2) report accurate per-variant sample sizes, replicate as expected. This study provides strong, rigorous evidence for the broad reliability of genome-wide association studies. We furthermore provide a model for more efficient selection of variants as candidates for replication, as selecting variants using cursed discovery data enriches for variants with little real evidence for trait association.
Genomic networks represent a complex map of molecular interactions which are descriptive of the biological processes occurring in living cells. Identifying the small over-represented circuitry patterns in these networks helps generate hypotheses about the functional basis of such complex processes. Network motif discovery is a systematic way of achieving this goal. However, a reliable network motif discovery outcome requires generating random background networks which are the result of a uniform and independent graph sampling method. To date, there has been no sound practical method to numerically evaluate whether any network motif discovery algorithm performs as intendedthus it was not possible to assess the validity of resulting network motifs. In this work, we present IndeCut, the first and only method that allows characterization of network motif finding algorithm performance on any network of interest. We demonstrate that it is critical to use IndeCut prior to running any network motif finder for two reasons. First, IndeCut estimates the minimally required number of samples that each network motif discovery tool needs in order to produce an outcome that is both reproducible and accurate. Second, IndeCut allows users to choose the most accurate network motif discovery tool for their network of interest among many available options. IndeCut is an open source software package and is available at https://github.com/megrawlab/IndeCut.
Summary  Genomic sequences are assembled into a variable, but large number of contigs that should be scaffolded (ordered and oriented) for facilitating comparative or functional analysis. Finding scaffolding is computationally challenging due to misassemblies, inconsistent coverage across the genome, and long repeats. An accurate assessment of scaffolding tools should take into account multiple locations of the same contig on the reference scaffolding rather than matching a repeat to a single best location. This makes mapping of inferred scaffoldings onto the reference a computationally challenging problem. This paper formulates the repeat-aware scaffolding evaluation problem which is to find a mapping of the inferred scaffolding onto the reference maximizing number of correct links and proposes a scalable algorithm capable of handling large whole-genome datasets. Our novel scaffolding validation pipeline has been applied to assess the most of state-of-the-art scaffolding tools on the representative subset of GAGE datasets.  Availability  The source code of this evaluation framework is available at https://github.com/mandricigor/repeat-aware. The documentation is hosted at https://mandricigor.github.io/repeat-aware.
GIGGLE is a genomics search engine that identifies and ranks the significance of shared genomic loci between query features and thousands of genome interval files. GIGGLE scales to billions of intervals, is faster (+1,000X) than existing methods, and its speed extends the accessibility and utility of resources such as ENCODE, Roadmap Epigenomics, and GTEX by facilitating data integration and hypothesis generation. GIGGLE is available at https://github.com/ryanlayer/giggle.
laucoma-associated myocilin is a member of the olfactomedins, a protein family broadly involved in neuronal development and human disease. Molecular studies of the myocilin N-terminal coiled coil demonstrate a unique tripartite architecture: a disulfide-linked, parallel dimer-of-dimers Y-shaped molecule, with distinct tetramer and dimer regions. The structure of the C-terminal 7-heptad dimer elucidates an unexpected repeat pattern involving electrostatic inter-strand stabilization. Molecular dynamics simulations reveal an alternate conformation in which the terminal inter-strand disulfide bond limits the extent of unfolding and results in a kinked configuration. Taken together, full-length myocilin is also branched, with two pairs of C-terminal olfactomedin domains. Selected variants within the N-terminal region alter the apparent quaternary structure of myocilin but do so without compromising stability or causing aggregation. In addition to increasing our structural knowledge of extracellular coiled coils for protein design and biomedically important olfactomedins, this work broadens the scope of protein misfolding in the pathogenesis of myocilin-associated glaucoma.  Highlights  Glaucoma-causing extracellular protein associated with amyloid forming propensity  Structural studies confirm tripartite parallel dimer-of-dimers coiled coil  Leucine zipper exhibits non-canonical heptad repeat pattern with disulfide cap  Glaucoma-associated variants in tetramer alter structure but not stability  eTOC blurb  Hill et al describe the structure of the coiled-coil region of myocilin, the extracellular olfactomedin family member closely associated with the ocular disorder glaucoma. Myocilins coiled coil adopts a unique Y-shaped parallel dimer-of-timers employing an unusual heptad repeat pattern. Selected disease variants alter quaternary structure.
Goal-directed movements of the hand are often directed straight at the target, e.g. when swatting a fly; but when drawing or avoiding obstacles, hand trajectories can also become quite complex. Studies on movement planning have largely neglected the latter case and the question of whether the same neural machinery is planning straight, saccade-like vs. complex hand trajectories. Using time-resolved fMRI during delayed response tasks we examined planning activity in human superior parietal lobule (SPL) and dorsal premotor cortex (PMd). We show that the recruitment of both areas in trajectory planning differs significantly: PMd represented both straight and complex hand trajectories while SPL only those that led straight to the target. This implies that complex and computationally demanding reach planning is governed by a frontal pathway while a parietal route could warrant an alternative and faster way to put simple plans into action.
Gonadotropin releasing hormone-1 (GnRH-1) neurons migrate from the developing olfactory pit into the hypothalamus during embryonic development. Migration of the GnRH-1 neurons is required for mammalian reproduction as these cells control release of gonadotropins from the anterior pituitary gland. Disturbances in GnRH-1 cell migration, GnRH-1 synthesis, secretion or signaling lead to varying degrees of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH), which impairs pubertal onset and fertility. HH associated with congenital olfactory defects is clinically defined as Kallmann Syndrome (KS).  The association of olfactory defects with HH in KS suggested potential direct relationship between defective olfactory axonal routing, lack of olfactory bulbs and aberrant GnRH-1 cell migration. However, it has never been experimentally proven that the formation of axonal connections of the olfactory and vomeronasal neurons to their functional targets are necessary for the migration GnRH-1 neurons to the hypothalamus. Loss-of-function of the  Arx-1  homeobox gene leads to the lack of proper formation of the olfactory bulbs with abnormal axonal termination of olfactory sensory neurons (Yoshihara et al., 2005). We exploited the Arx-1 null  mouse line to investigate the role of the olfactory system (olfactory/vomeronasal fibers and OBs) in controlling GnRH-1 migration to the hypothalamus. Our data proves that correct development of the OBs, and axonal connection of the olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons to the forebrain are not needed for GnRH-1 neuronal migration. Moreover, we prove that the terminal nerve, which forms the GnRH-1 migratory scaffold, follows different guidance cues and differs in its genetic expression from olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons.  Significance Statement  Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone-1 (GnRH-1) neurons control the reproductive axis of vertebrates. During embryonic development, these neurons migrate from the olfactory pit to the hypothalamus. GnRH-1 cell migration is commonly believed to take place along the olfactory axons. Our work reveals that correct olfactory bulb development and targeting of the olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons to the brain are not required for this migration. Our work challenges the idea that GnRH-1 neuronal migration to the hypothalamus relies on correct routing of the olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons. We provide a new basis for interpreting genetic correlations between anosmia, lack of olfactory bulbs, and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in Kallmann Syndrome.
Growing concerns regarding increasing rates of antibiotic resistance call for global monitoring efforts. Monitoring of environmental media (e.g., wastewater, agricultural waste, food, and water) is of particular interest as these media can serve as sources of potential novel antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), as hot spots for ARG exchange, and as pathways for the spread of ARGs and human exposure. Next-generation sequence-based monitoring has recently enabled direct access and profiling of the total metagenomic DNA pool, where ARGs are identified or predicted based on the best hits of homology searches against existing databases. Unfortunately, this approach tends to produce high rates of false negatives. To address such limitations, we propose here a deep leaning approach, taking into account a dissimilarity matrix created using all known categories of ARGs. Two models, deepARG-SS and deepARG-LS, were constructed for short read sequences and full gene length sequences, respectively. Performance evaluation of the deep learning models over 30 classes of antibiotics demonstrates that the deepARG models can predict ARGs with both high precision (&amp;gt;0.97) and recall (&amp;gt;0.90) for most of the antibiotic resistance categories. The models show advantage over the traditional best hit approach by having consistently much lower false negative rates and thus higher overall recall (&amp;gt;0.9). As more data become available for under-represented antibiotic resistance categories, the deepARG models performance can be expected to be further enhanced due to the nature of the underlying neural networks. The deepARG models are available both in command line version and via a Web server at http://bench.cs.vt.edu/deeparg. Our newly developed ARG database, deepARG-DB, containing predicted ARGs with high confidence and high degree of manual curation, greatly expands the current ARG repository. DeepARG-DB can be downloaded freely to benefit community research and future development of antibiotic resistance-related resources.  Abbreviations  ARG: antibiotic resistance gene
Growth and development of plants is ultimately driven by light energy captured through photosynthesis. ATP acts as universal cellular energy cofactor fuelling all life processes, including gene expression, metabolism, and transport. Despite a mechanistic understanding of ATP biochemistry, ATP dynamics in the living plant have been largely elusive. Here we establish live MgATP 2  assessment in plants using the fluorescent protein biosensor ATeam1.03-nD/nA. We generate Arabidopsis sensor lines and investigate the sensor  in vitro  under conditions appropriate for the plant cytosol. We establish an assay for ATP fluxes in isolated mitochondria, and demonstrate that the sensor responds rapidly and reliably to MgATP 2  changes  in planta . A MgATP 2  map of the Arabidopsis seedling highlights different MgATP 2  concentrations between tissues and in individual cell types, such as root hairs. Progression of hypoxia reveals substantial plasticity of ATP homeostasis in seedlings, demonstrating that ATP dynamics can be monitored in the living plant.  One-sentence Summary  Sensing of MgATP 2  by fluorimetry and microscopy allows dissection of ATP fluxes of isolated organelles, and dynamics of cytosolic MgATP 2  in vivo .  Funding Agencies  This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) through the Emmy-Noether programme (SCHW1719/1-1; M.S. and GR4251/1-1; C.G.), the Research Training Group GRK 2064 (M.S.; A.J.M.), the Priority Program SPP1710 (A.J.M.) and a grant (SCHW1719/5-1; M.S.) as part of the package PAK918. The Seed Fund grant CoSens from the Bioeconomy Science Center, NRW (A.J.M.; M.S.) is gratefully acknowledged. The scientific activities of the Bioeconomy Science Center were financially supported by the Ministry of Innovation, Science and Research within the framework of the NRW Strategieprojekt BioSC (No. 313/323-400-002 13). A.Co. received funding by the Ministero dellIstruzione, dellUniversit e della Ricerca through the FIRB 2010 programme (RBFR10S1LJ_001) and Piano di Sviluppo di Ateneo 2015 (Universit degli Studi di Milano). M.Z. received funding by the Ministero dellIstruzione, dellUniversit e della Ricerca (Italy) through the PRIN 2010 programme (PRIN2010CSJX4F). S.W. and T.N. received travel support by the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD). V.D.C. was supported by the European Social Fund, Operational Programme 2007/2013, and an Erasmus+ Traineeship grant. M.D.F was supported by The Human Frontier Science Program (RPG0053/2012), and the Leverhulme Foundation (RPG-2015-437). I.M.M. was supported by a grant from the Danish Council for Independent Research - Natural Sciences. V.C.P. was supported by the Innovation and Technology Fund (Funding Support to Partner State Key Laboratories in Hong Kong) of the HKSAR.  Abbreviations  AAC  ADP/ATP carrier; AK  adenylate kinase; cAT  carboxyatractyloside; CCCP  carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CFP  cyan fluorescent protein; CLSM  confocal laser scanning microscopy; ETC  electron transport chain; FRET  Frster Resonance Energy Transfer; LSFM  light sheet fluorescence microscopy.
Habit formation is a behavioral adaptation that automates routine actions. Habitual behavior correlates with broad reconfigurations of dorsolateral striatal (DLS) circuit properties that increase gain and shift pathway timing. The mechanism(s) for these circuit adaptations are unknown and could be responsible for habitual behavior. Here we find that a single class of interneuron, fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs), modulates all of these habit-predictive properties. Consistent with a role in habits, FSIs are more excitable in habitual mice compared to goal-directed and acute chemogenetic inhibition of FSIs in DLS prevents the expression of habitual lever pressing.  In vivo  recordings further reveal a previously unappreciated selective modulation of SPNs based on their firing patterns; FSIs inhibit most SPNs but paradoxically promote the activity of a subset displaying high fractions of gamma-frequency spiking. These results establish a microcircuit mechanism for habits and provide a new example of how interneurons mediate experience-dependent behavior.
Health care in the United States is markedly heterogeneous, with large disparities in treatment choices and health spending. Drug prescription is one major component of health carereflecting the accuracy of diagnosis, the adherence to evidence-based guidelines, susceptibility to drug marketing, and regulatory factors. Using medical claims data covering nearly half of the USA population, we have developed a framework to compare prescription rates of 600 popular drugs in 2,334 counties. Our approach uncovers geographically separated sub-Americas, where patients receive treatment for different diseases, and where physicians choose different drugs for the same disease. The geographical variation suggests influences of racial composition, state-level health care laws, and wealth. Some regions consistently prefer more expensive drugs, even when they have not been proven more efficacious than cheaper alternatives. Our study underlines the benefit of aggregating massive information on medical practice into a summarized and actionable form. We hope that our methodology and conclusions will guide policy measures for aligning prescriptions with best-practice guidelines.
Hematopoiesis is one of the best characterized biological systems but the connection between chromatin changes and lineage differentiation is not yet well understood. We have developed a bioinformatic workflow to generate a chromatin space that allows to classify forty-two human healthy blood epigenomes from the BLUEPRINT, NIH ROADMAP and ENCODE consortia by their cell type. This approach let us to distinguish different cells types based on their epigenomic profiles, thus recapitulating important aspects of human hematopoiesis. The analysis of the orthogonal dimension of the chromatin space identify 32,662 chromatin determinant regions (CDRs), genomic regions with different epigenetic characteristics between the cell types. Functional analysis revealed that these regions are linked with cell identities. The inclusion of leukemia epigenomes in the healthy hematological chromatin sample space gives us insights on the healthy cell types that are more epigenetically similar to the disease samples. Further analysis of tumoral epigenetic alterations in hematopoietic CDRs points to sets of genes that are tightly regulated in leukemic transformations and commonly mutated in other tumors. Our method provides an analytical approach to study the relationship between epigenomic changes and cell lineage differentiation. Method availability: https://github.com/david-juan/ChromDet
Here, we investigated novel interactions of three global regulators of the network that controls biofilm formation in the model bacterium  Escherichia coli  using computational network analysis, an  in vivo  reporter assay and physiological validation experiments. We were able to map critical nodes that govern planktonic to biofilm transition and identify 8 new regulatory interactions for CRP, IHF or Fis responsible for the control of the promoters of  rpoS ,  rpoE ,  flhD ,  fliA ,  csgD  and  yeaJ . Additionally, an  in vivo  promoter reporter assay and motility analysis revealed a key role for IHF as a repressor of cell motility through the control of FliA sigma factor expression. This investigation of first stage and mature biofilm formation indicates that biofilm structure is strongly affected by IHF and Fis, while CRP seems to provide a fine-tuning mechanism. Taken together, the analysis presented here shows the utility of combining computational and experimental approaches to generate a deeper understanding of the biofilm formation process in bacteria.
Background  Hi-C is a proximity-based ligation reaction used to detect regions of the genome that are close in 3D space (or interacting). Typically, results from Hi-C experiments (whole-genome contact maps) are visualized as heatmaps or Circos plots. While informative, these visualizations do not intuitively represent the complex organization and folding of the genome in 3D space, making the interpretation of the underlying 3D genomic organization difficult. Our objective was to utilize existing tools to generate a graph-based representation of a whole-genome contact map that leads to a more intuitive visualization.  Methodology  Whole-genome contact maps were converted into graphs where each vertex represented a genomic region and each edge represented a detected or known interaction between two vertices. Three types of interactions were represented in the graph: linear, intra-chromosomal ( cis -), and inter-chromosomal ( trans -) interactions. Each edge had an associated weight related to the linear distance (Hi-C experimental resolution) or the associated interaction frequency from the contact map. Graphs were generated based on this representation scheme for whole-genome contact maps from a fission yeast dataset where yeast mutants were used to identify specific principles influencing genome organization (GEO accession: GSE56849). Graphs were visualized in Cytoscape with an edge-weighted spring embedded layout where vertices and linear interaction edges were coloured according to their corresponding chromosome.  Results  The graph-based visualizations (compared to the equivalent heatmaps) more intuitively represented the effects of the  rad21  mutant on genome organization. Specifically, the graph based visualizations clearly highlighted the loss of structural globules and a greater intermingling of chromosomes in the mutant strain when compared to the wild-type. The graph-based representation and visualization protocol developed here will aid in understanding the complex organization and folding of the genome.
High density linkage maps are an important tool to gain insight into the genetic architecture of traits of evolutionary and economic interest, and provide a resource to characterise variation in recombination landscapes. Here, we used information from the cattle genome and the 50K Cervine Illumina BeadChip to inform and refine a high density linkage map in a wild population of red deer ( Cervus elaphus ). We constructed a predicted linkage map of 38,038 SNPs and a skeleton map of 10,835 SNPs across 34 linkage groups. We identified several chromosomal rearrangements in the deer lineage relative to sheep and cattle, including six chromosome fissions, one fusion and two large inversions. Otherwise, our findings showed strong concordance with map orders in the cattle genome. The sex-averaged linkage map length was 2739.7cM and the genome-wide autosomal recombination rate was 1.04cM per Mb. The female autosomal map length was 1.21 longer than that of males (2767.4cM vs 2280.8cM, respectively). Sex differences in map length were driven by high female recombination rates in peri-centromeric regions, a pattern that is unusual relative to other mammal species. This effect was more pronounced in fission chromosomes that would have had to produce new centromeres. We propose two hypotheses to explain this effect: (1) that this mechanism may have evolved to counteract centromeric drive associated with meiotic asymmetry in oocyte production; and/or (2) that sequence and structural characteristics suppressing recombination in close proximity to the centromere may not have yet evolved at neo-centromeres. Our study provides insight into how recombination landscapes vary and evolve in mammals, and will provide a valuable resource for studies of evolution, genetic improvement and population management in red deer and related species.  Article Summary  We present a high density linkage map (&amp;gt;38,000 markers) in a wild population of Red deer   (Cervus elaphus).   Our investigation of the recombination landscape showed a marked difference in recombination rates between the sexes in proximity to the centromere, with females showing an unusually elevated rate relative to other mammal species. This effect is most pronounced in chromosomes that would have produced a new centromere in the deer lineage. We propose that the observed effects have evolved to counteract selfish genetic elements associated with asymmetrical female meiosis.
Evidence has emerged in recent years linking insulators and the proteins that bind them to the higher order structure of animal chromatin, but the precise nature of this relationship and the manner by which insulators influence chromatin structure have remained elusive. Here we present high-resolution genome-wide chromatin conformation capture (Hi-C) data from early  Drosophila melanogaster  embryos that allow us to map three-dimensional interactions to 500 base pairs. We observe a complex, nested pattern of regions of chromatin self-association, and use a combination of computational and manual annotation to identify boundaries between these topological associated domains (TADs). We demonstrate that, when mapped at high resolution, boundaries resemble classical insulators: short (500 - 1000 bp) genomic regions that are sensitive to DNase digestion and strongly bound by known insulator proteins. Strikingly, we show that for regions where the banding pattern of polytene chromosomes has been mapped to genomic position at comparably high resolution, there is a perfect correspondence between polytene banding and our chromatin conformation maps, with boundary insulators forming the interband regions that separate compacted bands that correspond to TADs. We propose that this precise, high-resolution relationship between insulators and TADs on the one hand and polytene bands and interbands on the other extends across the genome, and suggest a model in which the decompaction of insulator regions drives the organization of interphase chromosomes by creating stable physical separation between adjacent domains.
High throughput RNA sequencing technologies have provided invaluable research opportunities across distinct scientific domains by producing quantitative readouts of the transcriptional activity of both entire cellular populations and single cells. The majority of RNA-Seq analyses begin by mapping each experimentally produced sequence (i.e., read) to a set of annotated reference sequences for the organism of interest. For both biological and technical reasons, a significant fraction of reads remains unmapped. In this work, we develop Read Origin Protocol (ROP) to discover the source of all reads originating from complex RNA molecules, recombinant T and B cell receptors, and microbial communities. We applied ROP to 8,641 samples across 630 individuals from 54 tissues. A fraction of RNA-Seq data (n=86) was obtained in-house; the remaining data was obtained from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx v6) project. To generalize the reported number of accounted reads, we also performed ROP analysis on thousands of different, randomly selected, and publicly available RNA-Seq samples in the Sequence Read Archive (SRA). Our approach can account for 99.9% of 1 trillion reads of various read length across the merged dataset (n=10641). Using in-house RNA-Seq data, we show that immune profiles of asthmatic individuals are significantly different from the profiles of control individuals, with decreased average per sample T and B cell receptor diversity. We also show that immune diversity is inversely correlated with microbial load. Our results demonstrate the potential of ROP to exploit unmapped reads in order to better understand the functional mechanisms underlying connections between the immune system, microbiome, human gene expression, and disease etiology. ROP is freely available at https://github.com/smangul1/rop and currently supports human and mouse RNA-Seq reads.
Homeostasis is a vital mode of biological self-regulation. The hallmarks of homeostasis for any biological system are a baseline set point of physiological activity, detection of unacceptable deviations from the set point, and effective corrective measures to counteract deviations. Homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) is a form of neuroplasticity in which neurons and circuits resist environmental perturbations in order to maintain appropriate levels of activity. One assumption is that if an environmental perturbation triggers homeostatic corrective changes in neuronal properties, those corrective measures should be reversed upon removal of the perturbation. We test the reversibility and limits of HSP at a well-studied model synapse, the  Drosophila melanogaster  neuromuscular junction (NMJ). At the Drosophila NMJ, impairment of glutamate receptors causes a decrease in quantal size, which is offset by a corrective, homeostatic increase in the number of vesicles released per evoked presynaptic stimulus, or quantal content. This process has been termed presynaptic homeostatic potentiation (PHP). Taking advantage of a GAL4/GAL80 TS /UAS expression system, we triggered PHP by expressing a dominant-negative glutamate receptor subunit at the NMJ. We then reversed PHP by halting expression of the dominant-negative receptor. Our data show that PHP is fully reversible over a time course of 48-72 hours after the dominant-negative glutamate receptor stops being genetically expressed. Additionally, we found that the PHP response triggered by the dominant-negative subunit was ablated at high temperatures. Our data show that the long-term maintenance of PHP at the Drosophila NMJ is a reversible regulatory process that is sensitive to temperature.  SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT  Biological homeostatic systems must upregulate or downregulate cellular parameters in order to maintain appropriate set points of physiological activity. Homeostasis is a well-documented mode of regulation in metazoan nervous systems. True homeostatic control should be a reversible process  but due to technical difficulties of presenting and removing functional challenges to living synapses, the reversibility of homeostatic forms of synapse regulation has not been rigorously examined  in vivo  over extended periods of developmental time. Here we formally demonstrate that homeostatic regulation of  Drosophila melanogaster  neuromuscular synapse function is reversible and temperature-labile. This is significant because developing methods to study how homeostatic regulatory systems are turned on and off could lead to fundamental new insights about control of synaptic output.
Human primary motor cortex (M1) is an essential structure for the production of dexterous hand movements. While distinct sub-populations of neurons are activated during single finger movements, it remains unknown whether M1 also represents sequences of multiple finger movements. Using novel multivariate fMRI analysis techniques, we show here that even after 5 days of intense practice there was little or no evidence for a true sequence representation in M1. Rather, the activity patterns for sequences in M1 could be explained by linear combination of patterns associated with the constituent individual finger movements, with the strongest weight on the finger making the first response of the sequence. These results suggest that M1 only represents single finger movements, but receives increased input at the start of a sequence. In contrast, the reliable differences between different sequences in premotor and parietal areas could not be explained by a strong weighting of the first finger, supporting the view that these regions exhibit a true representation of sequences.
umans and yeast are separated by a billion years of evolution, yet their conserved core histones retain central roles in gene regulation. Here, we reset yeast to use core human nucleosomes in lieu of their own, an exceedingly rare event which initially took twenty days. The cells adapt, however, by acquiring suppressor mutations in cell-division genes, or by acquiring certain aneuploidy states. Robust growth was also restored by converting five histone residues back to their yeast counterparts. We reveal that humanized nucleosomes in yeast are positioned according to endogenous yeast DNA sequence and chromatin-remodeling network, as judged by a yeast-like nucleosome repeat length. However, human nucleosomes have higher DNA occupancy and reduce RNA content. Adaptation to new biological conditions presented a special challenge for these cells due to slower chromatin remodeling. This humanized yeast poses many fundamental new questions about the nature of chromatin and how it is linked to many cell processes, and provides a platform to study histone variants via yeast epigenome reprogramming.  Highlights  - Only 1 in 10 7  yeast survive with fully human nucleosomes, but they rapidly evolve  - Nucleosome positioning and nucleosome repeat length is not influenced by histone type  - Human nucleosomes remodel slowly and delay yeast environmental adaptation  - Human core nucleosomes are more repressive and globally reduce transcription in yeast
Hybrid incompatibilities are a common correlate of genomic divergence and a potentially important contributor to reproductive isolation. However, we do not yet have a detailed understanding of how hybrid incompatibility loci function and evolve within their native species, or why they are dysfunctional in hybrids. Here, we explore these issues for a well-studied, two-locus hybrid incompatibility between  hybrid male sterility 1  ( hms1 ) and  hybrid male sterility 2  ( hms2 ) in the closely related yellow monkeyflower species  Mimulus guttatus  and  M. nasutus . By performing reciprocal backcrosses with introgression lines, we find evidence for gametic expression of the  hms1-hms2  incompatibility. Surprisingly, however, hybrid transmission ratios at  hms1  do not reflect this incompatibility, suggesting additional mechanisms counteract the effects of gametic sterility. Indeed, our backcross experiment shows hybrid transmission bias toward  M. guttatus  through both pollen and ovules, an effect that is particularly strong when  hms2  is homozygous for  M. nasutus  alleles. In contrast, we find little evidence for  hms1  transmission bias in crosses within  M. guttatus , providing no indication of selfish evolution at this locus. Although we do not yet have sufficient genetic resolution to determine if hybrid sterility and transmission ratio distortion map to the same loci, our preliminary fine-mapping uncovers a genetically independent hybrid lethality system involving at least two loci linked to  hms1 . This fine-scale dissection of transmission ratio distortion at  hms1  and  hms2  provides insight into genomic differentiation between closely related  Mimulus  species and reveals multiple mechanisms of hybrid dysfunction.
ion is a key molecular process in biology and biotechnology, but to date there is no predictive model for accurately determining hybridization rate constants based on sequence information. To approach this problem systematically, we first performed 210 fluorescence kinetics experiments to observe the hybridization kinetics of 100 different DNA target and probe pairs (subsequences of the  CYCS  and  VEGF  genes) at temperatures ranging from 28 C to 55 C. Next, we rationally designed 38 features computable based on sequence, each feature individually correlated with hybridization kinetics. These features are used in our implementation of a weighted neighbor voting (WNV) algorithm, in which the hybridization rate constant of an unknown sequence is predicted based on similarity reactions with known rate constants (a.k.a. labeled instances). Automated feature selection and weighting optimization resulted in a final 6-feature WNV model, which can predict hybridization rate constants of new sequences to within a factor of 2 with 74% accuracy and within a factor of 3 with 92% accuracy, based on leave-one-out cross-validation. Predictive understanding of hybridization kinetics allows more efficient design of nucleic acid probes, for example in allowing sparse hybrid-capture panels to more quickly and economically enrich desired regions from genomic DNA.
Hypersaline photosynthetic microbial mats are stratified microbial communities known for their taxonomic and metabolic diversity and strong light-driven day-night environmental gradients. In this study of the upper photosynthetic zone of hypersaline microbial mats of Elkhorn Slough, California (USA), we show how reference-based and reference-free methods can be used to meaningfully assess microbial ecology and genetic partitioning in these complex microbial systems. Mapping of metagenome reads to the dominant  Cyanobacteria  observed in the system,  Coleofasciculus (Microcoleus) chthonoplastes , was used to examine strain variants within these metagenomes. Highly conserved gene subsystems indicate a core genome for the species, and a number of variant genes and subsystems suggest strain level differentiation, especially for carbohydrate utilization. Metagenome sequence coverage binning was used to assess ecosystem partitioning of remaining microbes. Functional gene annotation of these bins (primarily of  Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes,  and  Cyanobacteria ) recapitulated the known biogeochemical functions in microbial mats using a genetic basis, and also revealed evidence of novel functional diversity within the  Gemmatimonadetes  and  Gammaproteobacteria . Combined, these two approaches show how genetic partitioning can inform biogeochemical partitioning of the metabolic diversity within microbial ecosystems.
In biotechnological work horses like  Streptococcus thermophilus  and  Bacillus subtilis  natural competence can be induced, which facilitates genetic manipulation of these microbes. However, in strains of the important dairy starter  Lactococcus lactis  natural competence has not been established to date. However,  in silico  analysis of complete genome sequences of 43  L. lactis  strains revealed complete late-competence gene-sets in 2  L. lactis  subspecies  cremoris  strains (KW2 and KW10) and 8  L. lactis  subspecies  lactis  strains, including the model strain IL1403 and the plant-derived strain KF147. The remainder of the strains, including all dairy isolates, displayed genomic decay in one or more of the late competence genes. Nisin-controlled expression of the competence regulator  comX  in  L. lactis  subsp.  lactis  KF147 resulted in the induction of expression of the canonical competence regulon, and elicited a state of natural competence in this strain. By contrast,  comX  expression in  L. lactis  NZ9000, predicted to encode an incomplete competence gene-set, failed to induce natural competence. Moreover, mutagenesis of the  comEA-EC  operon in strain KF147, abolished the  comX  driven natural competence, underpinning the involvement of the competence machinery. Finally, introduction of nisin-inducible  comX  expression into  nisRK -harboring derivatives of strains IL1403 and KW2 allowed the induction of natural competence also in these strains, expanding this phenotype to other  L. lactis  strains of both subspecies.  Significance statement  Specific bacterial species are able to enter a state of natural competence in which DNA is taken up from the environment, allowing the introduction of novel traits. Strains of the species  Lactococcus lactis  are very important starter cultures for the fermentation of milk in the cheese production process, where these bacteria contribute to the flavor and texture of the end-product. The activation of natural competence in this industrially relevant organism can accelerate research aiming to understand industrially relevant traits of these bacteria, and can facilitate engineering strategies to harness the natural biodiversity of the species in optimized starter strains.
Perception of chemical stimuli by insects aids in accepting or rejecting food. Gustatory receptors (Grs) regulating external signals in chemosensory organs have been found in many insects.  Tribolium castaneum , a major pest of stored products, possesses over 200  Gr  genes. An expanded repertoire of  Gr  genes appears to be required for diet recognition in generalist feeders; however, it remains unclear whether  T. castaneum  recognizes a suite of chemicals common to many products or whether it is attracted to specific chemicals, and whether its Grs are involved in its feeding behavior. It is difficult to determine the food preference of  T. castaneum  based on its dietary intake due to a lack of appropriate methodology. This study established a novel dietary intake estimation method using gypsum, designated the TribUTE ( Tribolium  Urges To Eat) assay.  T. castaneum  adults were fed gypsum block without added organic compounds. Sugar preference was determined by adding sweeteners and measuring the amount of gypsum in the excreta. Mannitol was the strongest attractant of  T. castaneum  dietary intake; in addition, TcGr20 was responsible for mannitol and sorbitol responses in  Xenopus  oocyte expression, but did not respond to any other non-volatile compounds tested. The EC 50  values of TcGr20 for mannitol and sorbitol were 72.6 mM and 90.6 mM, respectively, suggesting that TcGr20 is a feasible receptor for the recognition of mannitol in lower concentrations.  TcGr20  was expressed in the antennae, where the perception of mannitol would occur. We examined whether  TcGr20  was involved in mannitol recognition using RNAi and the TribUTE assay. The amounts of excreta in  TcGr20  dsRNA-injected adults decreased significantly despite the presence of mannitol, compared to that of the control adults. Taken together, our results suggest that  T. castaneum  adults recognized mannitol/sorbitol using TcGr20 receptors, thereby facilitating their dietary intake.  Abbreviation  ORF: open reading frame  RT: reverse transcription  RNAi: RNA interference  dsRNA: double strand RNA  cRNA: capped RNA  MBS: modified Barths saline  CBB: Coomassie brilliant blue  Gr: gustatory receptor
Large-scale cross-sectional and cohort studies have transformed our understanding of the genetic and environmental determinants of health outcomes. However, the representativeness of these samples may be limited  either through selection into studies, or by attrition from studies over time. Here we explore the potential impact of this selection bias on results obtained from these studies, from the perspective that this amounts to conditioning on a collider (i.e., a form of collider bias). While it is acknowledged that selection bias will have a strong effect on representativeness and prevalence estimates, it is often assumed that it should not have a strong impact on estimates of associations. We argue that because selection can induce collider bias (which occurs when two variables independently influence a third variable, and that third variable is conditioned upon), selection can lead to substantially biased estimates of associations. In particular, selection related to phenotypes can bias associations with genetic variants associated with those phenotypes. In simulations, we show that even modest influences on selection into, or attrition from, a study can generate biased and potentially misleading estimates of both phenotypic and genotypic associations. Our results highlight the value of knowing which population your study sample is representative of. If the factors influencing selection and attrition are known, they can be adjusted for. For example, having DNA available on most participants in a birth cohort study offers the possibility of investigating the extent to which polygenic scores predict subsequent participation, which in turn would enable sensitivity analyses of the extent to which bias might distort estimates.  Key Messages  Selection bias (including selective attrition) may limit the representativeness of large-scale cross-sectional and cohort studies.  This selection bias may induce collider bias (which occurs when two variables independently influence a third variable, and that variable is conditioned upon).  This may lead to substantially biased estimates of associations, including of genetic associations, even when selection / attrition is relatively modest.
In North America, antibiotic feed additives such as monensin and tylosin are added to the finishing diets of feedlot cattle to counter the ill-effects of feeding diets with rapidly digestible carbohydrates. While these feed additives have been proven to improve feed efficiency, and reduce liver abscess incidence, how these products impact the gastrointestinal microbiota is not completely understood. Furthermore, there are concerns that antibiotic feed additives may expand the antibiotic resistome of feedlot cattle by enriching antimicrobial resistance genes in pathogenic and nonpathogenic bacteria in the gut microbiota. In this study, we analyzed the impact of providing antibiotic feed additives to feedlot cattle using metagenome sequencing of treated and untreated animals. Our results indicate that use of antibiotic feed additives does not produce discernable changes at the phylum level however treated cattle had reduced the abundance of gram-positive bacteria at the genus level. The abundance of Ruminococcus, Erysipelotrichaceae and Lachanospira in the gut of treated steers was reduced. This may impact the ability of these animals to exclude pathogens from the gut. However, our results did not show any correlation between the presence of antimicrobial resistance genes in the gut microbiota and the administration of antibiotic feed additives.
In recent years, neuroimaging research in cognitive neuroscience has increasingly used multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) to investigate higher cognitive functions. Here we present DDTBOX, an open-source MVPA toolbox for electroencephalography (EEG) data. DDTBOX runs under MATLAB and is well integrated with the EEGLAB/ERPLAB and Fieldtrip toolboxes (Delorme and Makeig, 2004; Lopez-Calderon and Luck, 2014; Oostenveld et al. 2011). It trains support vector machines (SVMs) on patterns of event-related potential (ERP) amplitude data, following or preceding an event of interest, for classification or regression of experimental variables. These amplitude patterns can be extracted across space/electrodes (spatial decoding), time (temporal decoding), or both (spatiotemporal decoding). DDTBOX can also extract SVM feature weights, generate empirical chance distributions based on shuffled-labels decoding for group-level statistical testing, provide estimates of the prevalence of decodable information in the population, and perform a variety of corrections for multiple comparisons. It also includes plotting functions for single subject and group results. DDTBOX complements conventional analyses of ERP components, as subtle multivariate patterns can be detected that would be overlooked in standard analyses. It further allows for a more explorative search for information when no ERP component is known to be specifically linked to a cognitive process of interest. In summary, DDTBOX is an easy-to-use and open-source toolbox that allows for characterising the time-course of information related to various perceptual and cognitive processes. It can be applied to data from a large number of experimental paradigms and could therefore be a valuable tool for the neuroimaging community.
In fission yeast  Schizosaccharomyces pombe , pheromone signalling engages a GPCR-Ras-MAPK cascade to trigger sexual differentiation leading to gamete fusion. Cell-cell fusion necessitates local cell wall digestion, the location of which relies on an initially dynamic actin fusion focus that becomes stabilized upon local enrichment of the signalling cascade. We constructed a live-reporter of active Ras1 (Ras1-GTP), also functional in  S. cerevisiae , which revealed Ras activity at polarity sites peaking on the fusion structure before fusion. Remarkably, constitutive Ras1 activation promoted fusion focus stabilization and fusion attempts irrespective of cell-cell pairing, leading to cell lysis. Ras1 activity is restricted by the GTPase activating protein (GAP) Gap1, itself recruited to sites of Ras1-GTP. While the GAP domain on its own does not suffice for this localization, its recruitment to Ras1-GTP sites is essential to block untimely fusion attempts. We conclude that negative feedback control of Ras activity restrains the MAPK signal and couples fusion with cell-cell engagement.
In this article, we explore a non-canonical form of collective cell migration, displayed by the metastatic murine mammary carcinoma cell line 4T1. We show here that in sparsely plated 4T1 cells, E-cadherin levels are moderately reduced (~50%), leading to the development of collective migration, whereby cells translocate in loose clusters, interconnected by thin membrane tethers. Knocking down E-cadherin blocked tether formation in these cells, leading to enhancement of migration rate and, at the same time, to suppression of lung metastases formation  in vivo,  and inhibition of infiltration into fibroblast monolayers  ex vivo . These findings suggest that the moderate E-cadherin levels, present in wild-type 4T1 cells, play a key role in promoting cancer invasion and metastasis.
In this study, we present an effective model All-Trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA)-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells. The model describes reinforcing feedback between an ATRA-inducible signalsome complex involving many proteins including Vav1, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, and the activation of the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade. We decomposed the effective model into three modules; a signal initiation module that sensed and transformed an ATRA signal into program activation signals; a signal integration module that controlled the expression of upstream transcription factors; and a phenotype module which encoded the expression of functional differentiation markers from the ATRA-inducible transcription factors. We identified an ensemble of effective model parameters using measurements taken from ATRA-induced HL-60 cells. Using these parameters, model analysis predicted that MAPK activation was bistable as a function of ATRA exposure. Conformational experiments supported ATRA-induced bistability. Additionally, the model captured intermediate and phenotypic gene expression data. Knockout analysis suggested Gfi-1 and PPAR$[gamma] were critical to the ATRA-induced differentiation program. These findings, combined with other literature evidence, suggested that reinforcing feedback is central to hyperactive signaling in a diversity of cell fate programs.
n both vertebrates and invertebrates, neurons and glia are generated in a stereotyped order from dedicated progenitors called neural stem cells, but the purpose of invariant lineages is not understood. Here we show that three of the stem cells that produce leg motor neurons in  Drosophila  also generate a specialized subset of glia, the neuropil glia, which wrap and send processes into the neuropil where motor neuron dendrites arborize. The development of the neuropil glia and leg motor neurons is highly coordinated. However, although individual motor neurons have a stereotyped birth order and transcription factor code, both the number and individual morphologies of the glia born from these lineages are highly plastic, even though the final structure they contribute to is highly stereotyped. We suggest that the shared lineages of these two cell types facilitates the assembly of complex neural circuits, and that the two different birth order strategies  hardwired for motor neurons and flexible for glia  are important for robust nervous system development and homeostasis.
In yeast, DNA breaks are usually repaired by homologous recombination (HR). An early step for HR pathways is formation of a heteroduplex, in which a single-strand from the broken DNA molecule pairs with a strand derived from an intact DNA molecule. If the two strands of DNA are not identical, there will be mismatches within the heteroduplex DNA (hetDNA). In wild-type strains, these mismatches are repaired by the mismatch repair (MMR) system, producing a gene conversion event. In strains lacking MMR, the mismatches persist. Most previous studies involving hetDNA formed during mitotic recombination were restricted to one locus. Below, we present a global mapping of hetDNA formed in the MMR-defective  mlh1  strain. We find that many recombination events are associated with repair of double-stranded DNA gaps and/or involve Mlh1-independent mismatch repair. Many of our events are not explicable by the simplest form of the double-strand break repair model of recombination.
INTRODUCTION. Individuals with Parkinsons disease (PD) are at increased risk for falls, and exhibit deficits in executive function, including Set Shifting, which can be measured as the difference between parts B and A of the Trailmaking Test. METHODS. We conducted a cross-sectional study using baseline data of PD patients with and without freezing of gait (FOG) (n=69) and community-dwelling neurologically-normal older adults (NON-PD) (n=84) who had volunteered to participate in clinical rehabilitation research. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to determine associations between Set Shifting, PD, and faller status, as determined by 1 self-reported falls in the previous 6 months, after adjusting for demographic and cognitive factors and clinical disease characteristics. RESULTS. Impaired Set Shifting was associated with previous falls after controlling for age, sex, overall cognitive function, PD, FOG, and PD disease duration (OR=1.29 [1.03-1.60]; P=0.02). In models controlling for age, sex, and overall cognitive function, PD was associated with increased fall prevalence among the study sample (OR=4.15 [95% CI 1.65-10.44], P&amp;lt;0.01) and FOG was associated with increased fall prevalence among the PD sample (OR=3.63 [1.22-10.80], P=0.02). Although the strongest associations between Set Shifting and falling were observed among PD without FOG (OR=2.11) compared to HOA (OR=1.14) and PD with FOG (OR=1.46) in a multivariate model that allowed for interaction between set shifting and PD status, there was insufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis of no interaction. CONCLUSIONS. Set Shifting is associated with previous falls in non-demented older adults with and without PD.  Highlights  Individuals with PD are at increased risk for falls, although causes are unclear.  Impaired Set Shifting was associated with falls in older adults with and without PD.  Associations were strongest among those with PD but without freezing of gait.
Inference of gene regulatory network structures from RNA-Seq data is challenging due to the nature of the data, as measurements take the form of counts of reads mapped to a given gene. Here we present a model for RNA-Seq time series data that applies a negative binomial distribution for the observations, and uses sparse regression with a horseshoe prior to learn a dynamic Bayesian network of interactions between genes. We use a variational inference scheme to learn approximate posterior distributions for the model parameters. The methodology is benchmarked on synthetic data designed to replicate the distribution of real world RNA-Seq data. We compare our method to other sparse regression approaches and information theoretic methods. We demonstrate an application of our method to a publicly available human neuronal stem cell differentiation RNA-Seq time series.
Inferring relatedness from genomic data is an essential component of genetic association studies, population genetics, forensics, and genealogy. While numerous methods exist for inferring relatedness, thorough evaluation of these approaches in real data has been lacking. Here, we report an assessment of 12 state-of-the-art pairwise relatedness inference methods using a dataset with 2,485 individuals contained in several large pedigrees that span up to six generations. We find that all methods have high accuracy (~92%  99%) when detecting first and second degree relationships, but their accuracy dwindles to less than 43% for seventh degree relationships. However, most IBD segment-based methods inferred seventh degree relatives correct to within one relatedness degree for more than 76% of relative pairs. Overall, the most accurate methods are ERSA and approaches that compute total IBD sharing using the output from GERMLINE and Refined IBD to infer relatedness. Combining information from the most accurate methods provides little accuracy improvement, indicating that novel approachessuch as new methods that leverage relatedness signals from multiple samplesare needed to achieve a sizeable jump in performance.
Injury to the adult central nervous systems (CNS) results in severe long-term disability because damaged CNS connections rarely regenerate. Although several axon regeneration regulators have been proposed, intrinsic regenerative mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Here, we use a  Drosophila  CNS injury model to identify a novel pro-regeneration signaling pathway. We conducted a genetic screen of approximately three hundred candidate genes and identified three strong inducers of axonal growth and regeneration: the Down Syndrome Cell Adhesion Molecule (Dscam1), the de-ubiquitinating enzyme Fat Facets (Faf)/Usp9x and the Jun N-Terminal Kinase (JNK) pathway transcription factor Kayak (Kay)/Fos. Genetic and biochemical analyses link these genes in a common signaling pathway whereby Faf stabilizes Dscam1 protein levels, by acting on the 3-UTR of its mRNA, and Dscam1 acts upstream of the growth-promoting JNK signal. The mammalian homolog of Faf, Usp9x/FAM, shares both the regenerative and Dscam1 stabilizing activities, suggesting a conserved mechanism.
ons used in this study:  Epi: epiblast  FGF: fibroblast growth factor  ICM: inner cell mass  PrE: primitive endoderm  Abstract  Inner cell Mass (ICM) specification into epiblast (Epi) and primitive endoderm (PrE) is an asynchronous and progressive process taking place between E3.0 to E3.75 under the control of the FGF/ERK signaling pathway. Here, we have analyzed in details the kinetics of specification and found that ICM cell responsiveness to the up and down regulation of FGF signaling activity are temporally distinct. We also showed that PrE progenitors are generated later than Epi progenitors. We further demonstrated that, during this late phase of specification, a 4 hours period of FGF/ERK inhibition prior E3.75 is sufficient to convert ICM cells into Epi. Finally, we showed that ICM conversion into Epi in response to inhibition during this short time window requires both transcription and proteasome degradation. Collectively, our data give new insights into the timing and mechanisms involved in the process of ICM specification.
Insulin secretion from the pancreatic -cell initiated by activation of voltage-gated Ca 2+  channels (VGCC) to trigger Ca 2+ -mediated insulin vesicle fusion with the -cell plasma membrane. The firing of VGCC depends on the -cell membrane potential, which is in turn mediated by the balance of depolarizing (excitatory) and hyperpolarizing (inhibitory) ionic currents 1-3 . While much attention has focused on inhibitory potassium currents 4-10  there is little knowledge about the excitatory currents required to depolarize the -cell, including the molecular identity of these excitatory currents 3 . Here we show that SWELL1 (LRRC8a) mediates a swell-activated, depolarizing chloride current (I Cl,SWELL)  in -cells. Hypotonic and glucose-stimulated -cell swelling activates SWELL1-mediated I Cl,SWELL  and this is required for both glucose-stimulated and hypotonic swell-mediated activation of VGCC-dependent intracellular calcium signaling in -cells. SWELL1 KO MIN6 cells and -cell targeted SWELL1 KO murine islets exhibit significantly impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, with preserved insulin content  in vitro . Tamoxifen-inducible -cell targeted  SWELL1  KO mice have normal fasting insulin levels but display markedly impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Our results reveal a physiological role for SWELL1 as a glucose sensor - linking glucose-mediated -cell swelling to SWELL1-dependent activation of VGCC-triggered calcium signaling, and highlights SWELL1-mediated swell-secretion coupling as required for glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.
Insulinoma-associated1a (Insm1a) is a zinc-finger transcription factor playing a series of functions in cell formation and differentiation of vertebrate central and peripheral nervous systems and neuroendocrine system. However, its roles on the development of motor neuron have still remained uncovered. Here, we provided evidences that  insmla  was a vital regulator of motor neuron development and provide a mechanistic understanding of how it contributes to this process. Firstly, we showed the localization of  insmla  in spinal cord and primary motor neurons (PMNs) of zebrafish embryos by  in situ  hybridization and imaging analysis of transgenic reporter line  Tg(insmla: mCherry)  ntu805  . Then we demonstrated that the deficiency of  insmla  in zebrafish larvae lead to the defects of PMNs development, including the reduction of caudal primary motor neurons (CaP) and middle primary motor neurons (MiP), the excessive branching of motor axons, and the disorganized distance between adjacent CaPs. Additionally, knockout of  insm1  impaired motor neuron differentiation in the spinal cord. Locomotion analysis showed that  insmla -null zebrafish significantly reduced the swimming activity. Furthermore, we proved that the  insmla  loss of function significantly decreased the transcripts levels of both  olig2  and  nkx6.1 . Microinjection of  olig2  and  nkx6.1  mRNA rescued the motor neuron defects in  insmla  deficient embryos. Taken together, these data indicate that  insmla  regulates the motor neuron development, at least in part, through modulation of the expressions of  olig2  and  nkx6.1 .
Integration of emerging epigenetic information with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) genetic results may elucidate functional insights not possible via either type of information in isolation. We use genotype and DNA methylation (DNAm) data from cord blood and peripheral blood to identify SNPs associated with DNA methylation (meQTL lists) and additionally use publicly available fetal brain and lung meQTL lists to assess enrichment of ASD GWAS results for tissue-specific meQTLs. ASD-associated SNPs are enriched for fetal brain (OR = 3.55; p &amp;lt; 0.001) and peripheral blood meQTLs (OR = 1.58; p &amp;lt; 0.001). The CpG targets of ASD meQTLs across cord, blood, and brain tissues are enriched for immune-related pathways, consistent with other expression and DNAm results in ASD, and reveal pathways not implicated by genetic findings. This joint analysis of genotype and DNAm demonstrates the potential of both brain and blood-based DNAm for insights into ASD and psychiatric phenotypes more broadly.
3 is seen as a key anti-angiogenic target for cancer treatment due to its expression on neovasculature, but the role it plays in the process is complex; whether it is pro- or anti-angiogenic depends on the context in which it is expressed. To understand precisely 3s role in regulating integrin adhesion complexes in endothelial cells, we characterised, by mass spectrometry, the 3- dependent adhesome. We show that depletion of 3-integrin in this cell type leads to changes in microtubule behaviour that control their migration. 3- integrin regulates microtubule stability in endothelial cells through Rcc2/Anxa2 driven control of Rac1 activity. Our findings reveal that angiogenic processes, both  in vitro  and  in vivo , are more sensitive to microtubule targeting agents when 3-integrin levels are reduced.
Interactions between microbes are central to the dynamics of microbial communities. Understanding these interactions is essential for the characterization of communities, yet challenging to accomplish in practice. There are limited available tools for characterizing diffusion-mediated, contact-independent microbial interactions. A practical and widely implemented technique in such characterization involves the simultaneous co-culture of distinct bacterial species and subsequent analysis of relative abundance in the total population. However, distinguishing between species can be logistically challenging. In this paper, we present a low-cost, vertical membrane, co-culture plate to quantify contact-independent interactions between distinct bacterial populations in co-culture via real-time optical density measurements. These measurements can be used to facilitate the analysis of the interaction between microbes that are physically separated by a semipermeable membrane yet able to exchange diffusible molecules. We show that diffusion across the membrane occurs at a sufficient rate to enable effective interaction between physically separate cultures. Two bacterial species commonly found in the cystic fibrotic lung,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  and  Burkholderia cenocepacia , were co-cultured to demonstrate how this plate may be implemented to study microbial interactions. We have demonstrated that this novel co-culture device is able to reliably generate real-time measurements of optical density data that can be used to characterize interactions between microbial species.
Is activity in prefrontal cortex (PFC) critical for conscious perception? Major theories of consciousness make distinct predictions about the role of PFC, providing an opportunity to arbitrate between these views empirically. Here we address three common misconceptions: i) PFC lesions do not affect subjective perception; ii) PFC activity does not reflect specific perceptual content; iii) PFC involvement in studies of perceptual awareness is solely driven by the need to make reports required by the experimental tasks, rather than subjective experience  per  se. These claims are incompatible with empirical findings, unless one focuses only on studies using methods with limited sensitivity. The literature highlights PFCs essential role in enabling the subjective experience in perception,  contra  the objective capacity to perform visual tasks; conflating the two can also be a source of confusion.
rowing evidence indicates that innate immune pathway activation is critical for responses to immunotherapy and overall cancer prognosis. It has been posited that innate immunity in the tumor microenvironment can be driven by derepression of endogenous repetitive element RNA. The ability to characterize these species can potentially provide novel predictive biomarkers for tumor immune responses and a mechanistic basis for elements of innate activation by tumors. We first compared total RNA and poly(A)-capture protocols applied to tumor RNA-sequencing to detect non-RNA coding transcriptomes in the TCGA. While the poly(A) protocol efficiently detects coding, most non-coding genes, and much of the LINE/SINE/ERV repeat repertoire, we found that it fails to capture overall repeat expression and co-expression. The probing of total RNA expression reveals distinct repetitive co-expression subgroups. Secondly, we found that total repeat element expression delivers the most dynamic changes in samples, which may serve as more robust biomarkers of clinical outcomes. Finally, we show that while expression of ERVs, but not other immunostimulatory repeats such as HSATII, is associated with response to immunotherapy in a cohort of patients with urothelial cancer treated with anti-PD-L1 therapy, global repeat derepression strongly correlates with an immunosuppressive phenotype in the microenvironment of colorectal and pancreatic tumors. We validate  in situ  in human primary tumors, associating the immunosuppressive phenotype with HSATII expression. In conclusion, we demonstrate the importance of analyzing repetitive element RNAs as potential biomarkers of response to immunotherapy and the need to better characterize these features in next generation sequencing protocols.
It is well documented that the tumor microenvironment profoundly impacts the etiology and progression of breast cancer, yet the contribution of the resident microbiome within breast tissue remains poorly understood. Tumor microenvironmental conditions, such as hypoxia and dense tumor stroma, predispose progressive phenotypes and therapy resistance, however the role of bacteria in this interplay remains uncharacterized. We hypothesized that the effect of individual bacterial secreted molecules on breast cancer viability and proliferation would be modulated by these tumor-relevant stressors differentially for cells at varying stages of progression. To test this, we incubated human breast adenocarcinoma cells (MDA-MB-231, MCF-DCIS.com) and non-malignant breast epithelial cells (MCF-10A) with N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (OdDHL), a quorum-sensing molecule from  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  that regulates bacterial stress responses. This molecule was selected because  Pseudomonas  was recently characterized as a significant fraction of the breast tissue microbiome and OdDHL is documented to impact mammalian cell viability. After OdDHL treatment, we demonstrated the greatest decrease in viability with the more malignant MDAMB-231 cells and an intermediate MCF-DCIS.com (ductal carcinoma  in situ ) response. The responses were also culture condition (i.e. microenvironment) dependent. These results contrast the MCF-10A response, which demonstrated no change in viability in any culture condition. We further determined that the observed trends in breast cancer viability were due to modulation of proliferation for both cell types, as well as the induction of necrosis for MDA-MB-231 cells in all conditions. Our results provide evidence that bacterial quorum-sensing molecules interact with the host tissue environment to modulate breast cancer viability and proliferation, and that the effect of OdDHL is dependent on both cell type as well as microenvironment. Understanding the interactions between bacterial signaling molecules and the host tissue environment will allow for future studies that determine the contribution of bacteria to the onset, progression, and therapy response of breast cancer.
It is well known that top-down expectations affect perceptual processes. Yet, remarkably little is known about the relationship between expectations and conscious awareness We address three crucial questions that are outstanding: 1) How do predictions affect the likelihood of conscious stimulus perception?; 2) Does the brain register violations of predictions nonconsciously?; and 3) Do predictions need to be conscious to influence perceptual decisions? We performed three experiments in which we manipulated stimulus predictability within the attentional blink paradigm, while combining visual psychophysics with electrophysiological recordings. We found that valid stimulus expectations increase the likelihood of conscious access of stimuli. Furthermore, our findings suggest a clear dissociation in the interaction between expectations and consciousness: conscious awareness seems crucial for the implementation of top-down predictions, but not for the bottom-up generation of stimulus-evoked prediction errors. These results constrain and update influential theories about the role of consciousness in the predictive brain.
is a nanoscale molecular motor that walks towards the fast growing (plus) ends of microtubules (MTs), hauling molecular cargo to specific reaction sites in cells. Kinesin-driven transport is central to the self-organisation of eukaryotic cells and shows great promise as a tool for nano-engineering 1  ,  2 . Recent work hints that kinesin may also play a role in modulating the stability of its MT track, both  in vitro  3  -  5  and  in vivo  6 , but results are conflicting 7  -  9  and mechanisms are unclear. Here we report a new dimension to the kinesin-MT interaction, whereby strong-state (ATP-bound and apo) kinesin-1 motor domains inhibit the shrinkage of GDP-MTs by up to 2 orders of magnitude and expand their lattice spacing by ~1.6%. Our data reveal an unexpected new mechanism by which the mechanochemical cycles of kinesin and tubulin interlock, allowing motile kinesins to influence the structure, stability and mechanics of their MT track.
Knowledge about the statistical regularities of the world is essential for cognitive and sensorimotor function. In the domain of timing, prior statistics are crucial for optimal prediction, adaptation and planning. Where and how the nervous system encodes temporal statistics, however, is not known. Deriving from physiological and anatomical evidence for cerebellar learning, we develop a computational model that demonstrates how the cerebellum could learn prior distributions of time intervals and support Bayesian temporal estimation. The model shows that salient features observed in human Bayesian time interval estimates can be readily captured by learning in the cerebellar cortex and circuit level computations in the cerebellar deep nuclei.
Koalas ( Phascolarctos cinereus ) are iconic Australian marsupials currently threatened by several processes. Infectious reproductive tract disease, caused by  Chlamydia pecorum , and koala retrovirus infection are considered key drivers of population decline. The clinical sign of wet bottom, a staining of the rump associated with urinary incontinence, is often caused by chlamydial urogenital tract infections. However, wet bottom has been recorded in koalas free of  C. pecorum , suggesting other causative agents in those individuals. Current understanding of the bacterial community of the koala urogenital tract is limited. We used 16S rRNA diversity profiling to investigate the microbiome of the urogenital tract of ten female koalas. This was to produce baseline data on the female koala urogenital tract microbiome, and to undertake preliminary investigations of potential causative agents of wet bottom, other than  C. pecorum . Five urogenital samples were processed from koalas presenting with wet bottom and five were clinically normal. We detected thirteen phyla across the ten samples, with  Firmicutes  occurring at the highest relative abundance (77.6%). The order  Lactobacillales , within the  Firmicutes , comprised 70.3% of the reads from all samples. After normalising reads using DESeq2 and testing for significant differences ( P  &amp;lt; 0.05), there were 25 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) more commonly found in one group over the other. The families  Aerococcaceae  and  Tissierellaceae  both had four significantly differentially abundant OTUs. These four  Tissierellaceae  OTUs were all significantly more abundant in koalas with wet bottom.  Importance  This study provides an essential foundation for future investigations of both the normal microflora of the koala urogenital tract, and better understanding of the causes of koala urogenital tract disease. Koalas in the states of Queensland and New South Wales are currently undergoing decline, and have been classified as vulnerable populations. Urogenital tract disease is a leading cause of hospital admissions in these states, yet previously little was known of the normal flora of this site. Wet bottom is a clinical sign of urogenital tract disease, which is often assumed to be caused by  C. pecorum  and treated accordingly. Our research highlights that other organisms may be causing wet bottom, and these potential aetiological agents need to be further investigated to fully address the problems this species faces.
 Kochia scoparia  is a dicotyledonous annual herb and belongs to the Amaranthaceae family. Genetic diversity and resistance to drought stress of this plant has made it widely scattered in different regions which contains highly genetic diversity and great potential as fodder and can grow on salty, drought affected areas. Since the soil salinity has become widely spread. environmental concern has sparked so many debates. An important limiting factor in agricultural production worldwide is the sensitivity of most of the crop to salinity caused by high concentration of salts soil. Plants use three different strategies to prevent and adapt to high Na +  concentrations. Antiporters are important category of genes that play a pivotal role in ion homeostasis in plants. Na + /H +  antiporters (NHX1 and SOS1) are located in tonoplasts and reduce cytosolic Na +  concentration by pumping in the vacuole whereas SOS1 is localized at the plasma membrane and extrudes Na +  in apoplasts. Coding sequence of plasma membrane Na  + /H  +  antiporter (SOS1) and vacuole membrane Na / + H  +  antiporter (NHX) in  Kochia scoparia  were isolated using conserved sequences of SOS1 and NHX. Also, expression profile under salinity stress was studied in this study. The amino acid sequences (aa) of the isolated region of K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX showed the maximum identity up to 84% and 90% to its orthologue in salicornia brachiata and suadea maritima, respectively. The results of semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that salinization has affected positively on SOS1 transcription level. The expression of K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX in leaves and roots of  Kochia scoparia  were progressively increased under all salinity levels compared to control. The results suggest that K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX play an essential role in salt tolerance of  K.scoparia  and they can be useful to improve salt tolerance in other crops.
The KRAS oncogene is the most common, activating, oncogenic mutation in human cancer. KRAS has proven difficult to target effectively. Two different strategies have recently been described for covalently targeting the most common activating KRAS mutant in lung cancer, KRAS G12C. Previously, we have developed a computational model of the processes that regulate Ras activation and this model has proven useful for understanding the complex behaviors of Ras signaling. Here, we use this model to perform a computational systems pharmacology analysis of KRAS G12C targeted covalent inhibitors. After updating our model to include Ras protein turnover, we verified the validity of our model for problems in this domain by comparing model behaviors with experimental behaviors. The model naturally reproduces previous experimental data, including several experimental observations that were interpreted as being contrary to conventional wisdom. Overall, this suggests that our model describes the Ras system well, including those areas where conventional wisdom struggles. We then used the model to investigate possible strategies to improve the ability of KRAS G12C inhibitors to inhibit Ras pathway signaling. We identify one, as of yet unexplored mechanism, that, if optimized, could improve the effectiveness of one class of KRAS inhibitor. We also simulated resistance to targeted therapies and found that resistance promoting mutations may reverse which class of KRAS G12C inhibitor inhibits the system better, suggesting that there may be value to pursuing both types of KRAS G12C inhibitors. Overall, this work demonstrates that systems biology approaches can provide insights that inform the drug development process.
Language has been argued to arise, both ontogenetically and phylogenetically, from specific patterns of brain wiring. We argue that it can further be shown that core features of language processing emerge from particular phasal and cross-frequency coupling properties of neural oscillations; what has been referred to as the language oscillome. It is expected that basic aspects of the language oscillome result from genetic guidance, what we will here call the language oscillogenome, for which we will put forward a list of candidate genes. We have considered genes for altered brain rhythmicity in conditions involving language deficits (autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, specific language impairment and dyslexia) for which we have confident genome-oscillome-phenome connections. These selected genes map on to aspects of brain function, particularly on to neurotransmitter function. Our aim is to propose a set of biologically robust genome-to-language linking hypotheses that, given testing, would grant causal and explanatory power to brain rhythms with respect to language processing.
Legionellaceae are intracellular bacteria known as important pathogens of man. In the environment, they are mainly found in biofilms associated with amoebas. In contrast to another gammaproteobacterial family Enterobacteriaceae which established a broad spectrum of symbioses with many insect taxa, the only instance of legionella-like symbiont has been reported from lice of the genus  Polyplax . Here, we sequenced the complete genome of this symbiont and compared its main characteristics to other  Legionella  species and insect symbionts. Based on rigorous multigene phylogenetic analyses, we confirm this bacterium as a member of the genus  Legionella  and propose the name  Candidatus  Legionella polyplacis, sp.n. We show that the genome of  Ca.  Legionella polyplacis underwent massive degeneration, including considerable size reduction (529.746 bp, 484 protein coding genes) and a severe decrease in GC content (23%). We identify several possible constraints underlying the evolution of this bacterium. On one hand,  Ca.  Legionella polyplacis and the louse symbionts  Riesia  and  Puchtella  experienced convergent evolution, perhaps due to adaptation to similar hosts. On the other hand, some metabolic differences are likely to reflect different phylogenetic positions of the symbionts and hence availability of particular metabolic function in the ancestor. This is exemplified by different arrangements of thiamine metabolism in  Ca.  Legionella polyplacis and  Riesia . Finally, horizontal gene transfer is shown to play a significant role in the adaptive and diversification process. Particularly, we show that  Ca.  L. polyplacis horizontally acquired a complete biotin operon (bioADCHFB) that likely assisted this bacterium when becoming an obligate mutualist.
Light-sheet fluorescence microscopy (LSFM) enables high-speed, high-resolution, gentle imaging of live biological specimens over extended periods. Here we describe a technique that improves the spatiotemporal resolution and collection efficiency of LSFM without modifying the underlying microscope. By imaging samples on reflective coverslips, we enable simultaneous collection of multiple views, obtaining 4 complementary views in 250 ms, half the period it would otherwise take to collect only two views in symmetric dual-view selective plane illumination microscopy (diSPIM). We also report a modified deconvolution algorithm that removes the associated epifluorescence contamination and fuses all views for resolution recovery. Furthermore, we enhance spatial resolution (to &amp;lt; 300 nm in all three dimensions) by applying our method to a new asymmetric diSPIM, permitting simultaneous acquisition of two high-resolution views otherwise difficult to obtain due to steric constraints at high numerical aperture (NA). We demonstrate the broad applicability of our method in a variety of samples of moderate (&amp;lt; 50 m) thickness, studying mitochondrial, membrane, Golgi, and microtubule dynamics in single cells and calcium activity in nematode embryos.
 Background:  The presence of accelerometers in smartphones has enabled low-cost balance assessment. Smartglasses, which contain an accelerometer similar to that of smartphones, could provide a safe and engaging platform for virtual and augmented reality balance rehabilitation; however, the validity of head-mounted measurement of balance using smartglasses has not been investigated.   Objective:  To perform preliminary validation of a smartglasses-based balance accelerometry measure (BAM) compared with previously validated waist-based BAM.   Methods:  42 healthy individuals (26 male, 16 female; mean age  SD = 23.8  5.2 years) participated in the study. Following the BAM protocol, each subject performed two trials of six balance stances while accelerometer and gyroscope data were recorded from smartglasses (Google Glass). Test-retest reliability and correlation were determined relative to waist-based BAM as used in the NIH Standing Balance Toolbox.   Results:  Balance measurements obtained using a head-mounted wearable were highly correlated with those obtained through a waist-mounted accelerometer (Spearmans rank correlation coefficient = 0.85). Test-retest reliability was high (ICC = 0.85, 95% CI 0.81-0.88), and in good agreement with waist balance measurements (ICC = 0.84, 95% CI 0.80-0.88). Taking into account the total NPL magnitude improved inter-device correlation (0.90) while maintaining test-retest reliability (0.87, 95% CI 0.83-0.90). All subjects successfully completed the study, demonstrating the feasibility of using a head-mounted wearable to assess balance in a healthy population.   Conclusion:  Balance measurements derived from the smartglasses-based accelerometer were consistent with those obtained using a waist-mounted accelerometer. Given this and the potential for smartglasses in vestibular rehabilitation, the continued development and validation of balance assessment measurements obtained via smartglasses is warranted. This research was funded in part by Department of Defense/Defense Health Program (#W81XWH-14-C-0007, SBIR Phase II contract awarded to TIAX, LLC).
Background  Linked-Read sequencing technology has recently been employed successfully for  de novo  assembly of multiple human genomes, however the utility of this technology for complex plant genomes is unproven. We evaluated the technology for this purpose by sequencing the 3.5 gigabase (Gb) diploid pepper  (Capsicum annuum)  genome with a single Linked-Read library. Plant genomes, including pepper, are characterized by long, highly similar repetitive sequences. Accordingly, significant effort is used to ensure the sequenced plant is highly homozygous and the resulting assembly is a haploid consensus. With a phased assembly approach, we targeted a heterozygous F 1  derived from a wide cross to assess the ability to derive both haplotypes for a pungency gene characterized by a large insertion/deletion.  Results  The Supernova software generated a highly ordered, more contiguous sequence assembly than all currently available  C. annuum  reference genomes. Eighty-four percent of the final assembly was anchored and oriented using four  de novo  linkage maps. A comparison of the annotation of conserved eukaryotic genes indicated the completeness of assembly. The validity of the phased assembly is further demonstrated with the complete recovery of both 2.5 kb insertion/deletion haplotypes of the  PUN1  locus in the F 1  sample that represents pungent and non-pungent peppers.  Conclusions  The most contiguous pepper genome assembly to date has been generated through this work which demonstrates that Linked-Read library technology provides a rapid tool to assemble  de novo  complex highly repetitive heterozygous plant genomes. This technology can provide an opportunity to cost-effectively develop high-quality reference genome assemblies for other complex plants and compare structural and gene differences through accurate haplotype reconstruction.
Lipid-based particles are used worldwide in clinical trials as carriers of hydrophobic paclitaxel (PTXL) for cancer chemotherapy, albeit with little improvement over the standard-of-care. Improving efficacy requires an understanding of intramembrane interactions between PTXL and lipids to enhance PTXL solubilization and suppress PTXL phase separation into crystals. We studied the solubility of PTXL in cationic liposomes (CLs) composed of positively charged 2,3-dioleyloxypropyltrimethylammonium chloride (DOTAP) and neutral 1,2-dioleoyl- sn -glycero-3-phosphatidylcholine (DOPC) as a function of PTXL membrane content and its relation to efficacy. Time-dependent kinetic phase diagrams were generated from observations of PTXL crystal formation by differential-interference-contrast microscopy. Furthermore, a new Synchrotron small-angle x-ray scattering in situ methodology applied to DOTAP/DOPC/PTXL membranes condensed with DNA enabled us to detect the time-dependent depletion of PTXL from membranes by measurements of variations in the membrane interlayer and DNA interaxial spacings. Our results revealed three regimes with distinct time scales for PTXL membrane solubility: hours for &amp;gt; 3 mol% PTXL (low), days for  3 mol% PTXL (moderate), and  20 days for &amp;lt; 3 mol% PTXL (long-term). Cell viability experiments on human cancer cell lines using CL PTXL  nanoparticles (NPs) in the distinct CL PTXL  solubility regimes reveal an unexpected nonmonotonic dependence of efficacy on PTXL content in NPs delivered at short time scales (hours) after liposome hydration, where we see two distinct high-efficacy regimes at low (&amp;lt; 2 mol%) and high (9 mol%) drug loading. These newly identified high-efficacy regimes flank the membrane solubility limit ( 3 mol%, where efficacy declines), which has been the focus of most previous physicochemical studies (and clinical trials) of PTXL-loaded CLs. At longer times scales (days), CL PTXL  NPs with  3 mol% PTXL lose efficacy while formulations with 12 mol% PTXL maintain high efficacy. Our findings underscore the importance of understanding the relationship of the kinetic phase behavior and physicochemical properties of CL PTXL  NPs to efficacy.
The simExTargId R package provides real-time, autonomous, within-laboratory data analysis during a metabolomic LC-MS1-profiling experiment. Of concern to metabolomic investigators are instrumentation failure (especially for precious samples), outlier identification, instrument signal attenuation and pre-emptive feature identification for MS2 fragmentation.  SimExTargId allows observation of an experiment in progress with PCA plot and peak table outputs and also two shiny applications targetId for MS2 target identification and peakMonitor for signal attenuation monitoring. SimExTargId is ideally utilised on a (temporarily) dedicated workstation or server which is networked to a LC-MS data directory. Features include: email notification for instrument stoppage/drift, file format conversion, peak-picking, pre-processing, PCA-based outlier identification and statistical analysis. Additional MS1/MS2 experiments can be concatenated to a worklist or cleaning/recalibration undertaken if instrument drift is observed.  All source code and a vignette with example data are available on GitHub https://github.com/WMBEdmands/simExTargId/.  Contact: edmandsw@berkeley.edu
Localizing touch relies on the activation of skin-based and externally defined spatial frames of references. Psychophysical studies have demonstrated that early visual deprivation prevents the automatic remapping of touch into external space. We used fMRI to characterize how visual experience impacts on the brain circuits dedicated to the spatial processing of touch. Sighted and congenitally blind humans (male and female) performed a tactile temporal order judgment (TOJ) task, either with the hands uncrossed or crossed over the body midline. Behavioral data confirmed that crossing the hands has a detrimental effect on TOJ judgments in sighted but not in blind. Crucially, the crossed hand posture elicited more activity in a fronto-parietal network in the sighted group only. Psychophysiological interaction analysis revealed that the congenitally blind showed enhanced functional connectivity between parietal and frontal regions in the crossed versus uncrossed hand postures. Our results demonstrate that visual experience scaffolds the neural implementation of touch perception.  Significance statement  Although we seamlessly localize tactile events in our daily life, it is not a trivial operation because the hands move constantly within the peripersonal space. To process touch correctly, the brain has therefore to take the current position of the limbs into account and remap them to their location in the external world. In sighted, parietal and premotor areas support this process. However, while visual experience has been suggested to support the implementation of the automatic external remapping of touch, no studies so far have investigated how early visual deprivation alters the brain network supporting touch localization. Examining this question is therefore crucial to conclusively determine the intrinsic role vision plays in scaffolding the neural implementation of touch perception.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is crucial for  in vivo  detection and characterization of white matter lesions (WML) in multiple sclerosis. While these lesions have been studied for over two decades using MRI technology, automated segmentation remains challenging. Although the majority of statistical techniques for the automated segmentation of WML are based on a single imaging modality, recent advances have used multimodal techniques for identifying WML. Complementary imaging modalities emphasize different tissue properties, which can help identify and characterize interrelated features of lesions. However, prior work has ignored relationships between imaging modalities, which may be informative in this clinical context. To harness the coherent changes in these measurements, we utilized inter-modal coupling regression (IMCo) to estimate the covariance structure across modalities. We then used a local logistic regression, MIMoSA, which leverages new covariance features from IMCo regression as well as the mean structure of each imaging modality in order to model the probability that any voxel is part of a lesion. Finally, we introduced a novel thresholding algorithm to fully automate the estimation of the probability maps to generate fully automated segmentations masks for 94 subjects. To evaluate the performance of the automated segmentations generated using MIMoSA we compared results with gold standard manual segmentations. We demonstrate the superiority of MIMoSA to other automated segmentation techniques by comparing it to the OASIS algorithm as well as LesionTOADS. MIMoSA resulted in statistically significant improvement in lesion segmentation.
ly sensitive ion channels would allow researchers to better study how specific brain cells affect behavior in freely moving animals; however, recent reports of magnetogenetic ion channels have been questioned because known biophysical mechanisms cannot explain experimental observations. Here we show that magnetic fields can produce a change in the magnetic entropy of biogenic nanoparticles, which in turn may generate sufficient heat to gate temperature-sensitive ion channels. This magnetocaloric effect provides a rational approach for developing future magnetogenetic channels.
aintenance of proteostasis is critical for organismal health. Here we describe a novel pathway that promotes proteostasis, identified through the analysis of  C. elegans  genes upregulated by intracellular infection. We named this distinct transcriptional signature the Intracellular Pathogen Response (IPR), and it includes upregulation of several predicted ubiquitin ligase complex components such as the cullin  cul-6 . Through a forward genetic screen we found  pals-22 , a gene of previously unknown function, to be a repressor of the  cul-6/ Cullin gene and other IPR gene expression. Interestingly,  pals-22  mutants have increased thermotolerance and reduced levels of stress-induced polyglutamine aggregates, likely due to upregulated IPR expression. We found the enhanced stress resistance of  pals-22  mutants to be dependent on  cul-6 , suggesting that  pals-22  mutants have increased activity of a CUL-6/Cullin-containing ubiquitin ligase complex . pals-22  mutant phenotypes are distinct from the well-studied heat shock and insulin signaling pathways, indicating that the IPR is a novel pathway that protects animals from proteotoxic stress.
Many bacterial adaptive responses to changes in growth conditions due to biotic and abiotic factors involve reprogramming of gene expression at the transcription level. The bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP), which catalyzes transcription, can thus be considered as the major mediator of cellular adaptive strategies. But how do bacteria respond if a stress factor directly compromises the activity of the RNAP? We used a phage-derived small protein to specifically perturb bacterial RNAP activity in exponentially growing  Escherichia coli . Using cytological profiling, tracking RNAP behavior at single-molecule level and transcriptome analysis, we reveal that adaptation to conditions that directly perturb bacterial RNAP performance can result in a biphasic growth behavior and thereby confer the adapted bacterial cells an enhanced ability to tolerate diverse antibacterial stresses. The results imply that while synthetic transcriptional rewiring may confer bacteria with the intended desirable properties, such approaches may also collaterally allow them to acquire undesirable traits.
Many mutualistic microbial relationships are based on nutrient cross-feeding. Traditionally, cross-feeding is viewed as being unidirectional from the producer to the recipient. This is likely true when a producers metabolic waste, such as fermentation products, provides carbon for a recipient. However, in some cases the cross-fed nutrient holds value for both the producer and the recipient. In such cases, there is potential for nutrient reacquisition by producer cells in a population, leading to competition against recipients. Here we investigate the consequences of inter-partner competition for cross-fed nutrients on mutualism dynamics using an anaerobic coculture pairing fermentative  Escherichia coli  and phototrophic  Rhodopseudomonas palustris . In this coculture,  E. coli  excretes waste organic acids that provide carbon for  R. palustris . In return,  R. palustris  cross-feeds  E. coli  ammonium (NH 4  + ), a valuable nitrogen compound that both species prefer. To explore the potential for inter-partner competition, we first used a kinetic model to simulate cocultures with varied affinities for NH 4  +  in each species. The model predicted that inter-partner competition for cross-fed NH 4  +  could profoundly impact population dynamics. We then experimentally tested the predictions by culturing mutants lacking NH 4  +  transporters in both NH 4  +  competition assays and cooperative cocultures. Both theoretical and experimental results indicated that the recipient must have a competitive advantage in acquiring valuable cross-fed NH 4  +  to avoid collapse of the mutualism. Thus, the very metabolites that form the basis for cooperative cross-feeding can also be subject to competition between mutualistic partners.  Significance  Mutualistic relationships, particularly those based on nutrient cross-feeding, promote stability of diverse ecosystems and drive global biogeochemical cycles. Cross-fed nutrients within these systems can be either waste products valued only by one partner or nutrients that both partners value. Here, we explore how inter-partner competition for a communally-valuable cross-fed nutrient impacts mutualism dynamics. We discovered that mutualism stability necessitates that the recipient have a competitive advantage against the producer in obtaining the cross-fed nutrient. We propose that the requirement for recipient-biased competition is a general rule for mutualistic coexistence based on the transfer of communally valuable resources, microbial or otherwise.
Multiple studies support the pro-nociceptive role of brain-derived neurotrophin factor (BDNF) in pain processes in the peripheral and central nervous system. We have previously shown that nociceptor-derived BDNF is implicated in inflammatory pain. Microglial-derived BDNF has also been shown to be involved in neuropathic pain. However, the distinct contribution of primary afferent-derived BNDF to chronic pain processing remains undetermined. In this study, we used Advillin-CreERT2 mice to delete  Bdnf  from all adult peripheral sensory neurons. Conditional BDNF knockouts were healthy with no sensory neuron loss. Behavioural assays and  in vivo  electrophysiology indicated that spinal excitability was normal. Following formalin inflammation or neuropathy with a modified Chung model, we observed normal development of acute pain behaviour, but a deficit in second phase formalin-induced nocifensive responses and a reversal of neuropathy-induced mechanical hypersensitivity during the later chronic pain phase in conditional BDNF knockout mice. In contrast, we observed normal development of acute and chronic neuropathic pain in the Seltzer model, indicating differences in the contribution of BDNF to distinct models of neuropathy. We further used a model of hyperalgesic priming to examine the contribution of primary afferent-derived BDNF in the transition from acute to chronic pain, and found that primed BDNF knockout mice do not develop prolonged mechanical hypersensitivity. Our data suggest that BDNF derived from sensory neurons plays a critical role in mediating the transition from acute to chronic pain.
Mass cytometry or CyTOF is an emerging technology for high-dimensional multiparameter single cell analysis that overcomes many limitations of fluorescence-based flow cytometry. New methods for analyzing CyTOF data attempt to improve automation, scalability, performance, and interpretation of data generated in large studies. Assigning individual cells into discrete groups of cell types (gating) involves time-consuming sequential manual steps, untenable for larger studies. We introduce DeepCyTOF, a standardization approach for gating, based on deep learning techniques. DeepCyTOF requires labeled cells from only a single sample. It is based on domain adaptation principles and is a generalization of previous work that allows us to calibrate between a target distribution and a source distribution in an unsupervised manner. We show that Deep-CyTOF is highly concordant (98%) with cell classification obtained by individual manual gating of each sample when applied to a collection of 16 biological replicates of primary immune blood cells, even when measured accross several instruments. Further, DeepCyTOF achieves very high accuracy on the semi-automated gating challenge of the FlowCAP-I competition as well as two CyTOF datasets generated from primary immune blood cells: (i)14 subjects with a history of infection with West Nile virus (WNV), (ii) 34 healthy subjects of different ages. We conclude that deep learning in general, and DeepCyTOF specifically, offers a powerful computational approach for semi-automated gating of CyTOF and flow cytometry data.
Maternal investment is likely to have direct effects on offspring survival. In oviparous animals whose embryos are exposed to the external environment, maternal provisioning of molecular factors like mRNAs and proteins may help embryos cope with sudden changes in the environment. Here we sought to modify the maternal mRNA contribution to offspring embryos and test for maternal effects on acute thermal tolerance in early embryos of  Drosophila melanogaster . We drove in vivo overexpression of a small heat shock protein gene ( Hsp23 ) in female ovaries and measured the effects of acute thermal stress on offspring embryonic survival and larval development. We report that overexpression of the  Hsp23  gene in female ovaries produced offspring embryos with increased thermal tolerance. We also found that brief heat stress in the early embryonic stage (0 to 1 hour-old) caused decreased larval performance later in life (5 to 10 days-old), as indexed by pupation height, as well as increased development time to pupation. Maternal overexpression of  Hsp23  protected embryos against these heat-induced larval defects. Our data demonstrate that transient products of single genes have large and lasting effects on whole-organism environmental tolerance. Further, our results suggest that maternal effects have a profound impact on offspring survival in the context of thermal variability.  SUMMARY STATEMENT  A gene-specific maternal effect confers thermal tolerance to offspring embryos in the fruit fly  Drosophila melanogaster .
Mature dentate granule cells in the hippocampus receive input from the entorhinal cortex via the perforant path in precisely arranged lamina, with medial entorhinal axons innervating the middle molecular layer and lateral entorhinal cortex axons innervating the outer molecular layer. Although vastly outnumbered by mature granule cells, adult-generated newborn granule cells play a unique role in hippocampal function, which has largely been attributed to their enhanced excitability and plasticity (Schmidt-Hieber et al., 2004; Ge et al., 2007). Inputs from the medial and lateral entorhinal cortex carry different informational content, thus the distribution of inputs onto newly integrated granules will affect their function in the circuit. Therefore we examined the functional innervation and synaptic maturation of newly-generated dentate granule cells using retroviral labeling in combination with selective optogenetic activation of medial or lateral entorhinal inputs. Our results indicate that lateral entorhinal inputs provide nearly all the functional innervation of newly integrated granule cells. Despite preferential functional targeting, the dendritic spine density of immature granule cells was not increased in the outer molecular layer compared to the middle molecular layer. However, chronic blockade of neurotransmitter release in medial entorhinal axons with tetanus toxin disrupted normal synapse development from both medial and lateral entorhinal inputs. Our results support a role for preferential lateral perforant path input onto newly generated neurons in mediating pattern separation, but also indicates that medial perforant path input is necessary for normal synaptic development.  Significance Statement  The formation of episodic memories involves the integration of contextual and spatial information. Newly integrated neurons in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus play a critical role in this process, despite constituting only a minor fraction of total granule cells. Here we demonstrate that these neurons preferentially receive information thought to convey the context of an experience - a unique role that each newly integrated granule cell serves for about a month before reaching maturity.
Measurements and models of current flow in the brain during transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) indicate stimulation of regions in-between electrodes. Moreover, the cephalic cortex result in local fluctuations in current flow intensity and direction, and animal studies suggest current flow direction relative to cortical columns determines response to tDCS. Here we test this idea by measuring changes in cortico-spinal excitability by Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Motor Evoked Potentials (TMS-MEP), following tDCS applied with electrodes aligned orthogonal (across) or parallel to M1 in the central sulcus. Current flow models predicted that the orthogonal electrode montage produces consistently oriented current across the hand region of M1 that flows along cortical columns, while the parallel electrode montage produces none-uniform current directions across the M1 cortical surface. We find that orthogonal, but not parallel, orientated tDCS modulates TMS-MEPs. We also show modulation is sensitive to the orientation of the TMS coil (PA or AP), which is through to select different afferent pathways to M1. Our results are consistent with tDCS producing directionally specific neuromodulation in brain regions in-between electrodes, but shows nuanced changes in excitability that are presumably current direction relative to column and axon pathway specific. We suggest that the direction of current flow through cortical target regions should be considered for targeting and dose-control of tDCS.  Highlights  Direction of current flow is important for tDCS after-effects.  tDCS modulates excitability between two electrodes.  tDCS differentially modulates PA and AP inputs into M1.  Abbreviations  PA: postero-anterior  AP: antero-posterior  ML: medio-lateral  tDCS: transcranial direct current stimulation  MEP: motor evoked potential  M1: primary motor cortex  TMS: transcranial magnetic stimulation;  AP-TMS-MEPs: motor evoked potentials elicited with anterior-posterior directed TMS;  PA-TMS-MEPs: motor evoked potentials elicited with posterior-anterior directed TMS  Funding  This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
Measures of whole-brain activity, from techniques such as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging, provide a means to observe the brains dynamical operations. However, interpretation of whole-brain dynamics has been stymied by the inherently high-dimensional structure of brain activity. The present research addresses this challenge through a series of scale transformations in the spectral, spatial, and relational domains. Instantaneous multispectral dynamics are first developed from input data via a wavelet filter bank. Voxel-level signals are then projected onto a representative set of spatially independent components. The correlation distance over the instantaneous wavelet-ICA state vectors is a graph that may be embedded onto a lower-dimensional space to assist the interpretation of state-space dynamics. Applying this procedure to a large sample of resting and task data (acquired through the Human Connectome Project), we segment the empirical state space into a continuum of stimulus-dependent brain states. We also demonstrate that resting brain activity includes brain states that are very similar to those adopted during some tasks, as well as brain states that are distinct from experimentally-defined tasks. Back-projection of segmented brain states onto the brains surface reveals the patterns of brain activity that support each experimental state.
The current paradigm of treatment for dental caries (tooth decay) in primary teeth is dangerous, fails to reach many children, and suffers high recurrence. Acceptance of the paradigm arises from a misperception that untreated caries in primary teeth is a threat to life. We show a linear relationship between age and deaths in the United States from 1999 through 2015 caused by dental caries, pulpal / periapical abscess, or facial cellulitis. The intercept of 6 years coincides with emergence of the first permanent tooth: it appears that caries in primary teeth is not a threat to life. Thus, treatment goals should be to avoid pain, which is not possible with operative dentistry, as it causes pain. Medical management of caries is a distinct treatment philosophy which employs topical minimally invasive therapies that treat the disease, and is not merely prevention. Silver diamine fluoride (SDF) is a central agent to enable effective non-invasive treatment. The announcement of FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation suggests that SDF will become the first FDA approved drug for treating the disease dental caries. Since our last review, 4 clinical trials have been completed, which inform an update to the application protocol and frequency regimen. Suggestions from these studies are to skip the rinsing step due to demonstration of safety and concern of diminished effectiveness by dilution, and to start patients with an intensive regimen of multiple applications over the first few weeks. Breakthroughs in elucidating the impact of SDF on tooth structure and the plaque microbiome inform potential opportunities for bioengineering and understanding caries arrest, respectively. Dentists have been surprised by preference of this treatment over traditional invasive approaches. Renewed interest in this old material has delivered progress to optimize the judicious use of SDF, and enable a revolution in caries management  particularly for primary teeth.  ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY  Anesthesia is inappropriate for first-line treatment of early childhood caries now that safe topical treatments such as silver diamine fluoride are available.
Melanoma cells steer out of tumours using self-generated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) gradients. The cells break down LPA, which is present at high levels around the tumours, creating a dynamic gradient that is low in the tumour and high outside. They then also migrate up this gradient, creating a complex and evolving outward chemotactic stimulus. Here we introduce a new assay for self-generated chemotaxis, and show that raising LPA levels causes a delay in migration rather than loss of chemotactic efficiency. Knockdown of the lipid phosphatase LPP3 - but not its homologues LPP1 or LPP2 - diminishes the cells ability to break down LPA. This is specific for chemotactically active LPAs, such as the 18:1 and 20:4 species. Inhibition of autotaxin-mediated LPA production does not diminish outward chemotaxis, but loss of LPP3-mediated LPA breakdown blocks it. Similarly, in both 2D and 3D invasion assays, knockdown of LPP3 diminishes melanoma cells ability to invade. Our results demonstrate that LPP3 is the key enzyme in melanoma cells breakdown of LPA, and confirm the importance of attractant breakdown in LPAmediated cell steering.
Background  Metagenomics allows unprecedented access to uncultured environmental microorganisms. The analysis of metagenomic sequences facilitates gene prediction and annotation, and enables the assembly of draft genomes, including uncultured members of a community. However, while several platforms have been developed for this critical step, there is currently no clear framework for the assembly of metagenomic sequence data.  Results  To assist with selection of an appropriate metagenome assembler we evaluated the capabilities of nine prominent assembly tools on nine publicly-available environmental metagenomes, as well as three simulated datasets. Overall, we found that SPAdes provided the largest contigs and highest  N50  values across 6 of the 9 environmental datasets, followed by MEGAHIT and metaSPAdes. MEGAHIT emerged as a computationally inexpensive alternative to SPAdes, assembling the most complex dataset using less than 500 GB of RAM and within 10 hours.  Conclusions  We found that assembler choice ultimately depends on the scientific question, the available resources and the bioinformatic competence of the researcher. We provide a concise workflow for the selection of the best assembly tool.
Metastasis depends upon cancer cell growth and survival within the metastatic niche. Tumors which remodel their glycocalyces, by overexpressing bulky glycoproteins like mucins, exhibit a higher predisposition to metastasize, but the role of mucins in oncogenesis remains poorly understood. Here we report that a bulky glycocalyx promotes the expansion of disseminated tumor cells  in vivo  by fostering integrin adhesion assembly to permit G1 cell cycle progression. We engineered tumor cells to display glycocalyces of various thicknesses by coating them with synthetic mucin-mimetic glycopolymers. Cells adorned with longer glycopolymers showed increased metastatic potential, enhanced cell cycle progression, and greater levels of integrin-FAK mechanosignaling and Akt signaling in a syngeneic mouse model of metastasis. These effects were mirrored by expression of the ectodomain of cancer-associated mucin MUC1. These findings functionally link mucinous proteins with tumor aggression, and offer a new view of the cancer glycocalyx as a major driver of disease progression.
In metagenome analysis, computational methods for assembly, taxonomic profiling and binning are key components facilitating downstream biological data interpretation. However, a lack of consensus about benchmarking datasets and evaluation metrics complicates proper performance assessment. The Critical Assessment of Metagenome Interpretation (CAMI) challenge has engaged the global developer community to benchmark their programs on datasets of unprecedented complexity and realism. Benchmark metagenomes were generated from ~700 newly sequenced microorganisms and ~600 novel viruses and plasmids, including genomes with varying degrees of relatedness to each other and to publicly available ones and representing common experimental setups. Across all datasets, assembly and genome binning programs performed well for species represented by individual genomes, while performance was substantially affected by the presence of related strains. Taxonomic profiling and binning programs were proficient at high taxonomic ranks, with a notable performance decrease below the family level. Parameter settings substantially impacted performances, underscoring the importance of program reproducibility. While highlighting current challenges in computational metagenomics, the CAMI results provide a roadmap for software selection to answer specific research questions.
Here we seek to test the extent to which laboratory enrichments mimic natural community processes and the degree to which the initial structure of a community determines its response to a press disturbance via the addition of environmentally-relevant carbon compounds. By utilizing aerobic substrate arrays to examine the effect of carbon amendment on microbial communities taken from six distinct environments (soil from a temperate prairie and forest, tropical forest soil, subalpine forest soil, and surface water and soil from a palustrine emergent wetland), we examined how carbon amendment and inoculum source shape the composition of the community in each enrichment. Dilute subsamples from each environment were used to inoculate 96-well microtiter plates containing triplicate wells amended with one of 31 carbon sources from 6 different classes of organic compound (phenols, polymers, carbohydrates, carboxylic acids, amines, amino acids). After incubating each well aerobically in the dark for 72 hours, we analyzed the composition of the microbial communities on the substrate arrays as well as the initial inocula by sequencing 16S rRNA gene amplicons using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Comparisons of alpha and beta diversity in these systems showed that, while the composition of the communities that grow to inhabit the wells in each substrate array diverges sharply from that of the original community in the inoculum, these enrichment communities are still is strongly affected by the inoculum source. We found most enrichments were dominated by one or several OTUs most closely related to aerobes or facultative anaerobes from the  Proteobacteria  (e.g.  Pseudomonas ,  Burkholderia , and  Ralstonia ) or  Bacteroidetes  (e.g.  Chryseobacterium ). Comparisons within each substrate array based on the class of carbon source further show that the communities inhabiting wells amended with a carbohydrate differ significantly from those enriched with a phenolic compound. Niche selection therefore seems to play a strong role in shaping the communities in the substrate arrays, although some stochasticity is seen whereby several replicate wells within a single substrate array display strongly divergent community compositions. Overall, the use of highly parallel substrate arrays offers a promising path forward to study the response of microbial communities to a changing environment.
Microbial N 2  fixation (diazotrophy) represents an important nitrogen source to oligotrophic peatland ecosystems, which are important sinks for atmospheric CO 2  and susceptible to changing climate. The objectives of this study were: (i) to determine the active microbial group and type of nitrogenase mediating diazotrophy in a ombrotrophic  Sphagnum -dominated peat bog (the S1 peat bog, Marcell Experimental Forest, Minnesota, USA); and (ii) to determine the effect of environmental parameters (light, O 2 , CO 2 , CH 4 ) on potential rates of diazotrophy measured by acetylene (C 2 H 2 ) reduction and  15 N 2  incorporation. Molecular analysis of metabolically active microbial communities suggested that diazotrophy in surface peat was primarily mediated by  Alphaproteobacteria  ( Bradyrhizobiaceae  and  Beijerinckiaceae ). Despite higher dissolved vanadium (V; 11 nM) than molybdenum (Mo; 3 nM) in surface peat, a combination of metagenomic, amplicon sequencing and activity measurements indicated that Mo-containing nitrogenases dominate over the V-containing form. Acetylene reduction was only detected in surface peat exposed to light, with the highest rates observed in peat collected from hollows with the highest water content. Incorporation of 15 N 2  was suppressed 90% by O 2  and 55% by C 2 H 2 , and was unaffected by CH 4  and CO 2  amendments. These results suggest that peatland diazotrophy is mediated by a combination of C 2 H 2  - sensitive and C 2 H 2  - insensitive microbes that are more active at low O 2  and show similar activity at high and low CH 4 .  Importance  Previous studies indicate that diazotrophy provides an important nitrogen source and is linked to methanotrophy in  Sphagnum -dominated peatlands. However, the environmental controls and enzymatic pathways of peatland diazotrophy, as well as the metabolically active microbial populations that catalyze this process remain in question. Our findings indicate that oxygen levels and photosynthetic activity override low nutrient availability in limiting diazotrophy, and that members of the  Alphaproteobacteria  ( Rhizobiales ) catalyze this process at the bog surface using the molybdenum - based form of the nitrogenase enzyme.
itoproteases are becoming recognized as key regulators of diverse mitochondrial functions, although their direct substrates are often difficult to discern. Through multi-omic profiling of diverse  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  mitoprotease deletion strains, we predicted numerous associations between mitoproteases and distinct mitochondrial processes. These include a strong association between the mitochondrial matrix octapeptidase Oct1p and coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesisa pathway essential for mitochondrial respiration. Through Edman sequencing, and  in vitro  and  in vivo  biochemistry, we demonstrated that Oct1p directly processes the N-terminus of the CoQ-related methyltransferase, Coq5p, which markedly improves its stability. A single mutation to the Oct1p recognition motif in Coq5p disrupted its processing  in vivo , leading to CoQ deficiency and respiratory incompetence. This work defines the Oct1p processing of Coq5p as an essential post-translational event for proper CoQ production. Our custom data visualization tool enables efficient exploration of mitoprotease profiles that can serve as the basis for future mechanistic investigations.
Mixed effects models provide significant advantages in sensitivity and flexibility over typical statistical approaches to neural data analysis, but mass univariate application of mixed effects models to large neural datasets is computationally intensive. Threshold free cluster enhancement also provides a significant increase in sensitivity, but requires computationally-intensive permutation-based significance testing. Not surprisingly, the combination of mixed effects models with threshold free cluster enhancement and nonparametric permutation-based significance testing is currently completely impractical. With mixed effects for large datasets (MELD) we circumvent this impasse by means of a singular value decomposition to reduce the dimensionality of neural data while maximizing signal. Singular value decompositions become unstable when there are large numbers of noise features, so we precede it with a bootstrap-based feature selection step employing threshold free cluster enhancement to identify stable features across subjects. By projecting the dependent data into the reduced space of the singular value decomposition we gain the power of a multivariate approach and we can greatly reduce the number of mixed effects models that need to be run, making it feasible to use permutation testing to determine feature level significance. Due to these innovations, MELD is much faster than an element-wise mixed effects analysis, and on simulated data MELD was more sensitive than standard techniques, such as element-wise t-tests combined with threshold-free cluster enhancement. When evaluated on an EEG dataset, MELD identified more significant features than the t-tests with threshold free cluster enhancement in a comparable amount of time.
Modern infectious disease outbreak surveillance produces continuous streams of sequence data which require phylogenetic analysis as data arrives. Current software packages for Bayesian phy-logenetic inference are unable to quickly incorporate new sequences as they become available, making them less useful for dynamically unfolding evolutionary stories. This limitation can be addressed by applying a class of Bayesian statistical inference algorithms called sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) to conduct  online inference , wherein new data can be continuously incorporated to update the estimate of the posterior probability distribution. In this paper we describe and evaluate several different online phylogenetic sequential Monte Carlo (OPSMC) algorithms. We show that proposing new phylogenies with a density similar to the Bayesian prior suffers from poor performance, and we develop guided proposals that better match the proposal density to the posterior. Furthermore, we show that the simplest guided proposals can exhibit pathological behavior in some situations, leading to poor results, and that the situation can be resolved by heating the proposal density. The results demonstrate that relative to the widely-used MCMC-based algorithm implemented in MrBayes, the total time required to compute a series of phylogenetic posteriors as sequences arrive can be significantly reduced by the use of OPSMC, without incurring a significant loss in accuracy.
Molecular chaperones have evolved to facilitate folding of proteins and RNA  in vivo  where spontaneous self-assembly is sometimes prohibited. Folding of  Tetrahymena  ribozyme, assisted by the RNA chaperone CYT-19, surprisingly shows that at physiological Mg 2+  ion concentrations, increasing the chaperone concentration reduces the yield of native ribozymes. In contrast, the more extensively investigated protein chaperone GroEL works in exactly the opposite mannerthe yield of native substrate increases with the increase in chaperone concentration. Thus, the puzzling observation on the assisted-ribozyme folding seems to contradict the expectation that a molecular chaperone acts as an efficient annealing machine. We suggest a resolution to this apparently paradoxical behavior by developing a minimal stochastic model that captures the essence of the Iterative Annealing Mechanism (IAM), providing a unified description of chaperone mediated-folding of proteins and RNA. Our theory provides a general relation involving the kinetic rates of the system, which quantitatively predicts how the yield of native state depends on chaperone concentration. By carefully analyzing a host of experimental data on  Tetrahymena  (and its mutants) as well as the protein Rubisco and Malate Dehydrogenase, we show that although the absolute yield of native states decreases in the ribozyme, the rate of native state production increases in both the cases. By utilizing energy from ATP hydrolysis, both CYT-19 and GroEL drive their substrate concentrations far out of equilibrium, in an endeavor to maximize the native yield in a short time. Our findings are consistent with the general expectation that proteins or RNA need to be folded by the cellular machinery on biologically relevant timescales, even if the final yield is lower than what equilibrium thermodynamics would dictate. Besides establishing the IAM as the basis for functions of RNA and protein chaperones, our work shows that cellular copy numbers have been adjusted to optimize the rate of native state production of the folded states of RNA and proteins under physiological conditions.  Significance statement  Molecular chaperones have evolved to assist the folding of proteins and RNA, thus avoiding the deleterious consequences of misfolding. Thus, it is expected that increasing chaperone concentration should lead to an enhancement in native yield. While this has been observed in GroEL-mediated protein folding, experiments on  Tetrahymena  ribozyme folding assisted by CYT-19, surprisingly show the opposite trend. Here, we reconcile these divergent experimental observations by developing a unified stochastic model of chaperone assisted protein and RNA folding. We show that chaperones drive their substrates out of equilibrium, and in the process maximize the rate of native substrate production rather than the absolute yield or the folding rate.  In vivo  the number of chaperones is regulated to optimize their functions.
Mood instability is a core clinical feature of affective and psychotic disorders. In keeping with the Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) approach, it may be a useful construct for identifying biology that cuts across psychiatric categories. We aimed to investigate the biological validity of a simple measure of mood instability and evaluate its genetic relationship with several psychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder (BD), schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of mood instability in 53,525 cases and 60,443 controls from UK Biobank, identifying four independently-associated loci (on chromosomes eight, nine, 14 and 18), and a common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based heritability estimate of approximately 8%. We found a strong genetic correlation between mood instability and MDD (r g =0.60, SE=0.07, p=8.95  10 17 ) and a small but significant genetic correlation with both schizophrenia (r g =0.11, SE=0.04, p=0.01) and anxiety disorders (r g =0.28, SE=0.14, p=0.04), although no genetic correlation with BD, ADHD or PTSD. Several genes at the associated loci may have a role in mood instability, including the  DCC netrin 1 receptor (DCC ) gene,  eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B subunit beta (eIF2B2 ),  placental growth factor (PGF ), and  protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type D (PTPRD ). Strengths of this study include the very large sample size, but our measure of mood instability may be limited by the use of a single question. Overall, this work suggests a polygenic basis for mood instability. This simple measure can be obtained in very large samples; our findings suggest that doing so may offer the opportunity to illuminate the fundamental biology of mood regulation.
Morphogen gradients direct the spatial patterning of developing embryos, however, the mechanisms by which these gradients are interpreted remain elusive. Here we perform  in vivo  single molecule imaging in early  Drosophila melanogaster  embryos of the transcription factor Bicoid that forms a gradient and initiates patterning along the anteroposterior axis. We observe that Bicoid binds to DNA with a rapid off-rate, such that its average occupancy at target loci is on-rate dependent, a property required for concentration-sensitive regulation. Surprisingly, we also observe abundant specific DNA binding in posterior nuclei, where Bicoid levels are vanishingly low. Live embryo imaging reveals spatiotemporal hubs of local high Bicoid concentration that are dependent on the ubiquitous maternal factor Zelda. We propose that localized modulation of transcription factor on-rates via clustering, provides a general mechanism to facilitate binding to low-affinity targets, and that this may be a prevalent feature directing other developmental transcription networks.
 Hammondia hammondi  is the nearest relative of  Toxoplasma gondii,  but unlike  T. gondii  is obligately heteroxenous. We have compared  H. hammondi  and  T. gondii  development  in vitro  and identified multiple  H. hammondi -specific growth states. Despite replicating slower than  T. gondii ,  H. hammondi  was resistant to pH-induced tissue cyst formation early after excystation. However, in the absence of stress  H. hammondi  spontaneously converted to a terminally differentiated tissue cyst stage while  T. gondii  did not. Cultured  H. hammondi  could infect new host cells for up to 8 days following excystation, and this period was exploited to generate stably transgenic  H. hammondi . Coupled with RNAseq analyses, our data clearly show that  H. hammondi  zoites grow as stringently regulated life stages that are fundamentally distinct from  T. gondii  tachyzoites and bradyzoites.
 genes have multiple transcription start and polyadenylation sites, as well as alternatively spliced exons. Although such transcript isoform diversity contributes to the differentiation between cell types, the importance of contributions from the different isoform generating processes is unclear. To address this question, we used 798 samples from the Genotype-Tissue Expression ( GTEx ) to investigate cell type dependent differences in exon usage of over 18,000 protein-coding genes in 23 cell types. We found tissue-dependent isoform usage in about half of expressed genes. Overall, tissue-dependent splicing accounted only for a minority of tissue-dependent exon usage, most of which was consistent with alternative transcription start and termination sites. We verified this result on a second, independent dataset, Cap Analysis of Gene Expression (CAGE) data from the FANTOM consortium, which confirmed widespread tissue-dependent usage of alternative transcription start sites. Our analysis identifies transcription start and termination sites as the principal drivers of isoform diversity across tissues. Moreover, our results indicate that most tissue-dependent splicing involves untranslated exons and therefore may not have consequences at the proteome level.
Most mutations are deleterious and cause a reduction in population fitness known as the mutational load. In small populations, weakened selection against slightly-deleterious mutations results in an additional fitness reduction. Many studies have established that populations can evolve a reduced mutational load by evolving mutational robustness, but it is uncertain whether small populations can evolve a reduced susceptibility to drift-related fitness declines. Here, using mathematical modeling and digital experimental evolution, we show that small populations do evolve a reduced vulnerability to drift, or drift robustness. We find that, compared to genotypes from large populations, genotypes from small populations have a decreased likelihood of small-effect deleterious mutations, thus causing small-population genotypes to be drift-robust. We further show that drift robustness is not adaptive, but instead arises because small populations preferentially adapt to drift-robust fitness peaks. These results have implications for genome evolution in organisms with small population sizes.
Most organs rely on stem cells to maintain homeostasis during post-embryonic life. Typically, stem cells of independent lineages work coordinately within mature organs to ensure proper ratios of cell types. Little is known, however, on how these different stem cells locate to forming organs during development. Here we show that neuromasts of the posterior lateral line in medaka are composed of two independent life-long lineages with different embryonic origins. Clonal analysis and 4D imaging revealed a hierarchical organisation with instructing and responding roles: an inner, neural lineage induces the formation of an outer, border cell lineage (nBC) from the skin epithelium. Our results demonstrate that the neural lineage is necessary and sufficient to generate nBCs highlighting self-organisation principles at the level of the entire embryo. We hypothesise that transformation of surrounding tissues plays a major role during the establishment of vertebrate stem cell niches.
lar development is largely determined by transcriptional regulatory programs that orchestrate the expression of thousands of protein-coding and noncoding genes. To decipher the genomic regulatory code that specifies these programs, and to investigate globally the developmental relevance of noncoding transcription, we profiled genome-wide promoter activity throughout embryonic development in 5  Drosophila  species. We show that core promoters, generally not thought to play a significant regulatory role, in fact impart broad restrictions on the developmental timing of gene expression on a genome-wide scale. We propose a hierarchical model of transcriptional regulation during development in which core promoters define broad windows of opportunity for expression, by defining a limited range of transcription factors from which they are able to receive regulatory inputs. This two-tiered mechanism globally orchestrates developmental gene expression, including noncoding transcription on a scale that defies our current understanding of ontogenesis. Indeed, noncoding transcripts are far more prevalent than ever reported before, with 4,000 long noncoding RNAs expressed during embryogenesis. Over 1,500 are functionally conserved throughout the  melanogaster  subgroup, and hundreds are under strong purifying selection. Overall, this work introduces a hierarchical model for the developmental regulation of transcription, and reveals the central role of noncoding transcription in animal development.
Multidrug resistant bacterial pathogens have become a serious global human health threat, and conjugative plasmids are important drivers of the rapid spread of resistance to last-resort antibiotics. Whereas antibiotics have been shown to select for adaptation of resistance plasmids to their new bacterial hosts, or  vice versa , a general evolutionary mechanism has not yet emerged. Here we conducted an experimental evolution study aimed at determining general patterns of plasmid-bacteria evolution. Specifically, we found that a large conjugative resistance plasmid follows the same evolutionary trajectories as its non-conjugative mini-replicon in the same and other species. Furthermore, within a single hostplasmid pair three distinct patterns of adaptive evolution led to increased plasmid persistence: i) mutations in the replication protein gene ( trfA1 ); ii) the acquisition by the resistance plasmid of a transposon from a co-residing plasmid encoding a putative toxin-antitoxin system; iii) a mutation in the hosts global transcriptional regulator gene  fur . Since each of these evolutionary solutions individually have been shown to increase plasmid persistence in other plasmid-host pairs, our work points towards common mechanisms of plasmid stabilization. These could become the targets of future alternative drug therapies to slow down the spread of antibiotic resistance.
Multiplexing (mplx), labeling for multiple immunostains the very same cell or tissue section in situ, has raised considerable interest. The methods proposed include the use of labelled primary antibodies, spectral separation of fluorochromes, bleaching of the fluorophores or chromogens, blocking of previous antibody layers, all in various combinations. The major obstacles to the diffusion of this technique are high costs in custom antibodies and instruments, low throughput, scarcity of specialized skills or facilities.  We have validated a method based on common primary and secondary antibodies and diffusely available fluorescent image scanners. It entails rounds of four-color indirect immunofluorescence, image acquisition and removal (stripping) of the antibodies, before another stain is applied. The images are digitally registered and the autofluorescence is subtracted. Removal of antibodies is accomplished by disulphide cleavage and a detergent or by a chaotropic salt treatment, this latter followed by antigen refolding. More than thirty different antibody stains can be applied to one single section from routinely fixed and embedded tissue. This method requires a modest investment in hardware and materials and uses freeware image analysis software. Mplx on routine tissue sections is a high throughput tool for in situ characterization of neoplastic, reactive, inflammatory and normal cells.
Music is thought to engage its listeners by driving feelings of surprise, tension, and relief through a dynamic mixture of predictable and unpredictable patterns, a property summarized here as expressiveness. Birdsong shares with music the goal to attract and hold its listeners attention and might make use of similar strategies to achieve this goal. We here tested a songbirds  rhythm , as represented by the amplitude envelope (containing information on note timing, duration, and intensity), for expressiveness. We used multifractal analysis which is designed to detect in a signal dynamic fluctuations between predictable and unpredictable states on multiple timescales (e.g. notes, subphrases, songs). Results show that the songs9 amplitude envelope is strongly multifractal, indicating rhythm is patterned by fluctuations between predictable and unpredictable patterns. Moreover, comparing original songs with re-synthesized songs that lack all subtle deviations from the standard note envelopes, we find that deviations in note intensity and duration significantly contribute to the rhythms multifractality. This suggests that birds render their songs more expressive by subtly modifying note timing patterns, similar to musical operations like  accelerando  or  ritardando . Our findings bear consequences for neuronal models of vocal sequence generation in birds, as they require non-local rules to generate rhythm.
Musical imagery is a human experience of imagining music without actually hearing it. The neural basis of such a mental ability is unclear, especially for musicians capable of accurate and vivid musical imagery due to their musical training. Here, we visualized an 8-min symphony as a silent movie, and used it as real-time cues for musicians to continuously imagine the music for multiple synchronized sessions during functional magnetic resonance imaging. The activations and networks evoked by musical imagery were compared with those when the subjects directly listened to the same music. The musical imagery and perception shared similar responses at bilateral secondary auditory areas and Wernickes area for encoding the musical feature. But the Wernickes area was involved in highly distinct network interactions during musical imagery vs. perception. The former involved positive correlations with a subset of the auditory network and the attention network, but negative correlations with the default mode network; the latter was confined to the intrinsic auditory network in the resting state. Our results highlight the important role of the Wernickes area in forming vivid musical imagery through bilateral and anti-correlated network interactions, challenging the conventional view of segregated and lateralized processing of music vs. language.
Musicians can perform at different tempos, speakers can control the cadence of their speech, and children can flexibly vary their temporal expectations of events. To understand the neural basis of such flexible timing, we recorded from the medial frontal cortex of primates trained to produce different time intervals with different effectors. The activity of neurons was heterogeneous, nonlinear and complex. However, responses were unified under a remarkable form of invariance: firing rate profiles were temporally stretched for longer intervals and compressed for short ones. At the network level, this phenomenon was evident by flexible changes in the speed with which the population activity traced an invariant trajectory. To identify the origin of speed control, we recorded from both downstream caudate neurons and thalamic neurons projecting to the medial frontal cortex. Speed adjustments were a prominent feature in the caudate but not in the thalamus suggesting that this phenomenon originates within cortical networks. To understand the underlying mechanisms, we created recurrent neural network models at different levels of complexity that could explain flexible timing with speed control. Analysis of the models revealed that the key to flexible speed control was the action of an external input upon the nonlinearities of individual neurons whose recurrent interactions set the networks relaxation dynamics. These findings demonstrate a simple and general mechanism for conferring temporal flexibility upon sensorimotor and cognitive functions.
Temperature sensitive (TS) alleles are important tools for the genetic and functional analysis of essential genes in many model organisms. While isolating TS alleles is not difficult, determining the TS-conferring mutation can be problematic. Even with whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data there is a paucity of predictive methods for identifying TS alleles from DNA sequence alone. We assembled 173 TS lethal mutants of  Caenorhabditis elegans  and used WGS to identify several hundred mutations per strain. We leveraged single molecule molecular inversion probes (MIPs) to sequence variant sites at high depth in the cross-progeny of TS mutants and a mapping strain with identified sequence variants but no apparent phenotypic differences from the reference N2 strain. By sampling for variants at ~1Mb intervals across the genome we genetically mapped mutant alleles at a resolution comparable to current standards in a process we call MIP-MAP. The MIP-MAP protocol, however, permits high-throughput sequencing of multiple TS mutation mapping libraries at less than 200K reads per library. Using MIP-MAP on a subset of TS mutants, via a competitive selection assay and standard recombinant mutant selection, we defined TS-associated intervals of 3Mb or less. Our results suggest this collection of strains contains a diverse library of TS alleles for genes involved in development and reproduction. MIP-MAP is a robust method to genetically map mutations in both viable and essential genes. The MIPs protocol should allow high-throughput tracking of genetic variants in any mixed population.
Myoepithelial carcinoma (MECA) is an aggressive type of salivary gland cancer with largely unknown molecular features. MECA may arise de novo or result from oncogenic transformation of a pre-existing pleomorphic adenoma (MECA ex-PA). We comprehensively analyzed the molecular alterations in MECA with integrated genomic analyses. We identified a low mutational load (0.5/MB), but a high prevalence of fusion oncogenes (28/40 tumors; 70%). We found  FGFR1-PLAG1  in 7 (18%) cases, and the novel  TGFBR3-PLAG1  fusion in 6 (15%) cases.  TGFBR3-PLAG1  was specific for MECA de novo tumors or the malignant component of MECA ex-PA, was absent in 723 other salivary gland tumors, and promoted a tumorigenic phenotype in vitro. We discovered other novel  PLAG1  fusions, including  ND4-PLAG1,  which is an oncogenic fusion between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA. One tumor harbored an  MSN-ALK  fusion, which was tumorigenic in vitro, and targetable with ALK inhibitors. Certain gene fusions were predicted to result in neoantigens with high MHC binding affinity. A high number of copy number alterations was associated with poorer prognosis. Our findings indicate that MECA is a fusion-driven disease, nominate  TGFBR3-PLAG1  as a hallmark of MECA, and provide a framework for future steps of diagnostic and therapeutic research in this lethal cancer.
Background  Natural Killer (NK) cells are critical innate effector cells whose development is dependent on the JAK-STAT pathway. NK deficiency can result in severe or refractory viral infections. Patients with Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT)1 gain of function (GOF) mutations have increased viral susceptibility.  Objective  We sought to investigate NK cell function in STAT1 GOF patients. Methods: NK cell phenotype and function were determined in 16 STAT1 GOF patients.  Methods  NK cell phenotype and function were determined in 16 STAT1 GOF patients.NK cell lines expressing patient mutations were generated with CRISPR-Cas9 mediated gene editing. STAT1 GOF NK cells were treated in vitro with ruxolitinib.  Results  Peripheral blood NK cells from of STAT1 GOF patients had impaired terminal maturation. Specifically, patients with  STAT1 GOF  mutations have immature CD56 dim  NK cells with decreased expression of CD16, perforin, CD57 and impaired cytolytic function. STAT1 phosphorylation was elevated but STAT5 was aberrantly phosphorylated in response to IL-2 stimulation. Upstream inhibition of STAT signaling with the small molecule JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib  in vitro  and  in vivo  restored perforin expression in CD56 dim  NK cells and partially restored NK cell cytotoxic function.  Conclusions  Properly regulated STAT1 signaling is critical for NK cell maturation and function. Modulation of elevated STAT1 phosphorylation with ruxolitinib is an important option for therapeutic intervention in patients with  STAT1 GOF  mutations.
 diagram of the neocortex determines how information is processed across dozens of cortical areas. Each area communicates with multiple others via extensive long-range axonal projections  16 , but the logic of inter-area information transfer is unresolved. Specifically, the extent to which individual neurons send dedicated projections to single cortical targets or distribute their signals across multiple areas remains unclear 5,720 . Distinguishing between these possibilities has been challenging because axonal projections of only a few individual neurons have been reconstructed. Here we map the projection patterns of axonal arbors from 591 individual neurons in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) using two complementary methods: whole-brain fluorescence-based axonal tracing 21,22  and high-throughput DNA sequencing of genetically barcoded neurons (MAPseq) 23 . Although our results confirm the existence of dedicated projections to certain cortical areas, we find these are the exception, and that the majority of V1 neurons broadcast information to multiple cortical targets. Furthermore, broadcasting cells do not project to all targets randomly, but rather comprise subpopulations that either avoid or preferentially innervate specific subsets of cortical areas. Our data argue against a model of dedicated lines of intracortical information transfer via one neuron  one target area mapping. Instead, long-range communication between a sensory cortical area and its targets may be based on a principle whereby individual neurons copy information to, and potentially coordinate activity across, specific subsets of cortical areas.
Nervous system function relies on precise synaptic connections. A number of widely-conserved cell adhesion proteins are implicated in cell recognition between synaptic partners, but how these proteins act as a group to specify a complex neural network is poorly understood. Taking advantage of known connectivity in  C. elegans , we identified and studied cell adhesion genes expressed in three interacting neurons in the mating circuits of the adult male. Two interacting pairs of cell surface proteins independently promote fasciculation between sensory neuron HOA and its postsynaptic target interneuron AVG: BAM-2/neurexin-related in HOA binds to CASY-1/calsyntenin in AVG; SAX-7/L1CAM in sensory neuron PHC binds to RIG-6/contactin in AVG. A third, basal pathway results in considerable HOA-AVG fasciculation and synapse formation in the absence of the other two. The features of this multiplexed mechanism help to explain how complex connectivity is encoded and robustly established during nervous system development.
eural plasticitythe ability of a neuron to change its cellular properties in response to past experiencesunderpins the nervous systems capacity to form memories and actuate behaviors. How different plasticity mechanisms act together  in vivo  and at a cellular level to transform sensory information into behavior is not well understood. Here we show that in the nematode  C. elegans  two plasticity mechanismssensory adaptation and presynaptic plasticityact within a single cell to encode thermosensory information and actuate a temperature-preference memory. Sensory adaptation enables the primary thermosensory neuron, AFD, to adjust the temperature range of its sensitivity to the local environment, thereby optimizing its ability to detect temperature fluctuations associated with migration. Presynaptic plasticity transforms this thermosensory information into a behavioral preference by gating synaptic communication between sensory neuron AFD and its postsynaptic partner, AIY. The gating of synaptic communication is regulated at AFD presynaptic sites by the conserved kinase nPKC. Bypassing or altering AFD presynaptic plasticity predictably changes the learned behavioral preferences without affecting sensory responses. Our findings indicate that two distinct and modular neuroplasticity mechanisms function together within a single sensory neuron to encode multiple components of information required to enact thermotactic behavior. The integration of these plasticity mechanisms result in a single-cell logic system that can both represent sensory stimuli and guide memory-based behavioral preference.
Neurodegenerative diseases pose an extraordinary threat to the worlds aging population, yet no disease-modifying therapies are available. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of novel risk loci for neurodegeneration, the mechanisms by which these loci influence disease risk are largely unknown. Indeed, of the many thousands of SNP-trait associations identified by GWAS over the past ~10 years, very few are understood mechanistically. Here, we investigate the association of common genetic variants at the 7p21 locus with risk for the neurodegenerative disease frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We show that variants associated with disease risk correlate with increased brain expression of the 7p21 gene  TMEM106B , and no other genes. Furthermore, incremental increases in TMEM106B levels result in incremental increases in lysosomal phenotypes and cell toxicity. We then combine fine-mapping, bioinformatics, and bench-based approaches to functionally characterize all candidate causal variants at this locus. This approach identified a noncoding variant, rs1990620, which differentially recruits CTCF, influencing CTCF-mediated long-range chromatin looping interactions between multiple  cis -regulatory elements, including the  TMEM106B  promoter. Our findings thus provide an in-depth analysis of the 7p21 locus linked by GWAS to frontotemporal lobar degeneration, nominating a causal variant and a causal mechanism for allele-specific expression and disease association at this locus. Finally, we show that genetic variants associated with risk for neurodegenerative diseases beyond frontotemporal lobar degeneration are enriched in brain CTCF-binding sites genome-wide, implicating CTCF-mediated gene regulation in risk for neurodegeneration more generally.
euronal activity generates ionic flows and thereby both magnetic fields and electric potential differences, i.e. voltages. Voltage measurements are widely used, but suffer from isolating and smearing properties of tissue between source and sensor, are blind to ionic flow direction, and reflect the difference between two electrodes, complicating interpretation. Magnetic field measurements could overcome these limitations, but have been essentially limited to magnetoencephalography (MEG), using centimeter-sized, helium-cooled extracranial sensors. Here, we report on in vivo magnetic recordings of neuronal activity from visual cortex of cats with  magnetrodes , specially developed needle-shaped probes carrying micron-sized, non-cooled magnetic sensors based on spin electronics. Event-related magnetic fields inside the neuropil were on the order of several nanoteslas, informing MEG source models and efforts for magnetic field measurements through MRI. Though the signal-to-noise ratio is still inferior to electrophysiology, this proof of concept demonstrates the potential to exploit the fundamental advantages of magnetophysiology.  HIGHLIGHTS  Spin-electronics based probes achieve local magnetic recordings inside the neuropil  Magnetic field recordings were performed in vivo, in anesthetized cat visual cortex  Event-related fields (ERFs) to visual stimuli were up to several nanoteslas in size  ERFs could be detected after averaging less than 20 trials  IN BRIEF  Caruso et al. report in vivo, intra-cortical recordings of magnetic fields that reflect neuronal activity, using magnetrodes, i.e. micron size magnetic sensors based on spin electronics.
Neurons in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) respond to peripheral stimulation with synchronised bursts of spikes, which lock to the macroscopic 600 Hz EEG waves. The mechanism of burst generation and synchronisation in S1 is not yet understood. Using models of single-neuron responses fitted to unit recordings from macaque monkeys, we show that these synchronised bursts are the consequence of correlated synaptic inputs combined with a refractory mechanism. In the presence of noise these models reproduce also the observed trial-to-trial response variability, where individual bursts represent one of many stereotypical temporal spike patterns. When additional slower and global excitability fluctuations are introduced the single-neuron spike patterns are correlated with the population activity, as demonstrated in experimental data. The underlying biophysical mechanism of S1 responses involves thalamic inputs arriving through depressing synapses to cortical neurons in a high-conductance state. Our findings show that a simple feedforward processing of peripheral inputs could give rise to neuronal responses with non-trivial temporal and population statistics. We conclude that neural systems could use refractoriness to encode variable cortical states into stereotypical short-term spike patterns amenable to processing at neuronal time scales (tens of milliseconds).  Significance statement  Neurons in the hand area of the primary somatosensory cortex respond to repeated presentation of the same stimulus with variable sequences of spikes, which can be grouped into distinct temporal spike patterns. In a simplified model, we show that such spike patterns are product of synaptic inputs and intrinsic neural properties. This model can reproduce both single-neuron and population responses only when a private variability in each neuron is combined with a multiplicative gain shared over whole population, which fluctuates over trials and might represent the dynamical state of the early stages of sensory processing. This phenomenon exemplifies a general mechanism of transforming the ensemble cortical states into precise temporal spike patterns at the level of single neurons.
Background  Non-carbonated natural mineral waters contain microorganisms that regularly grow after bottling despite low concentrations of dissolved organic matter (DOM). Yet, the compositions of bottled water microbiota and organic substrates that fuel microbial activity, and how both change after bottling, are still largely unknown.  Results  We performed a multifaceted analysis of microbiota and DOM diversity in twelve natural mineral waters from six European countries. 16S rRNA gene-based analyses showed that less than ten species-level operational taxonomic units (OTUs) dominated the bacterial communities in the water phase and associated with the bottle wall after a short phase of post-bottling growth. Members of the betaproteobacterial genera  Curvibacter ,  Aquabacterium , and  Polaromonas  ( Comamonadaceae ) grew in most waters and represent ubiquitous, mesophilic, heterotrophic aerobes in bottled waters. Ultrahigh-resolution mass spectrometry of DOM in bottled waters and their corresponding source waters identified thousands of molecular formulae characteristic of mostly refractory, soil-derived DOM.  Conclusions  The bottle environment, including source water physicochemistry, selected for growth of a similar low-diversity microbiota across various bottled waters. Relative abundance changes of hundreds of multi-carbon molecules were related to growth of less than ten abundant OTUs. We thus speculate that individual bacteria cope with oligotrophic conditions by simultaneously consuming diverse DOM molecules.
Normal nervous system function is critically dependent on the balance of water and ions in the extracellular space. Pathological reduction in brain interstitial osmolarity results in osmotically-driven flux of water into cells, causing cellular edema which reduces the extracellular space and increases neuronal excitability and risk of seizures. Astrocytes are widely considered to be particularly susceptible to cellular edema due to selective expression of the water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4). The apparent resistance of pyramidal neurons to osmotic swelling has been attributed to lack of functional water channels. In this study we report rapid volume changes in CA1 pyramidal cells in hypoosmolar ACSF (hACSF) that are equivalent to volume changes in astrocytes across a variety of conditions. Astrocyte and neuronal swelling was significant within 1 minute of exposure to 17 or 40% hACSF, was rapidly reversible upon return to normosmolar ACSF, and repeatable upon re-exposure to hACSF. Neuronal swelling was not an artifact of patch clamp, occurred deep in tissue, was similar at physiological vs. room temperature, and occurred in both juvenile and adult hippocampal slices. Neuronal swelling was neither inhibited by TTX, nor by antagonists of NMDA or AMPA receptors, suggesting that it was not occurring as a result of excitotoxicity. Surprisingly, genetic deletion of AQP4 did not inhibit, but rather augmented, astrocyte swelling in severe hypoosmolar conditions. Taken together, our results indicate that neurons are not osmoresistant as previously reported, and that osmotic swelling is driven by an AQP4-independent mechanism.
Nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is a heterotrimeric transcription factor that consists of three subunits, NF-YA, NF-YB, and NF-YC. Although NF-Ys play multiple roles in plant development, their functions during endosperm development are not well understood. In this study, we identified eight NF-Y encoding genes, including  OsNF-YA8, OsNF-YB1,9 , and  OsNF-YC8,9,10,11,12 , which predominantly express in the rice endosperm. Interestingly, the closest homologs of these OsNF-Ys are present only in the monocot species. All the genes are preferentially expressed in the endosperm, suggesting their roles in the regulation of endosperm development. A systemic analysis of the interactions between rice endosperm-preferential NF-Ys in yeast revealed that NF-YBs and NF-YCs could interact with each other. OsNF-YA8 is a recently evolved NF-YA in rice. Generally, NF-YA does not interact with NF-YB monomers in plants; however, in the present study, we found that OsNY-YA8 interacts with OsNF-YB9. Our results also indicated that the endosperm-preferential OsNF-YBs and OsNF-YCs could interact with some ethylene response factors (ERFs) of rice. Unlike the OsNF-YC8,9,10, the members of OsNF-YB1, 9 or OsNF-YC 11 and 12 showed lack of transcriptional activation when present alone. However, they displayed functional activity while in dimer form. In addition,  OsNF-YB1  knockout lines showed significant changes in the seed morphology, further confirms its role in endosperm development. Our findings have provided strong evidences that the group of phylogenetically conserved NF-Ys are differentiated in monocots to regulate the endosperm development.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy is, together with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), the most established platform to perform metabolomics. In contrast to LC-MS however, NMR data is predominantly being processed with commercial software. This has the effect that its data processing remains tedious and dependent on user interventions. As a follow-up to speaq, a previously released workflow for NMR spectral alignment and quantitation, we present speaq 2.0. This completely revised framework to automatically analyze 1D NMR spectra uses wavelets to efficiently summarize the raw spectra with minimal information loss or user interaction. The tool offers a fast and easy workflow that starts with the common approach of peak-picking, followed by grouping. This yields a matrix consisting of features, samples and peak values that can be conveniently processed either by using included multivariate statistical functions or by using many other recently developed methods for NMR data analysis. speaq 2.0 facilitates robust and high-throughput metabolomics based on 1D NMR but is also compatible with other NMR frameworks or complementary LC-MS workflows. The methods are benchmarked using two publicly available datasets. speaq 2.0 is distributed through the existing speaq R package to provide a complete solution for NMR data processing. The package and the code for the presented case studies are freely available on CRAN (https://cran.r-project.org/package=speaq) and GitHub (https://github.com/beirnaert/speaq).  Author summary  We present speaq 2.0: a user friendly workflow for processing NMR spectra quickly and easily. By limiting the need for user interaction and allowing the construction of workflows by combining R functions, metabolomics data analysis becomes fully reproducible and shareable. Such advances are critical for the future of the metabolomics field as it needs to move towards a fully open-science approach. This is no trivial goal as many researchers are still using black-box commercial software that often requires manually doing several steps, thus hampering reproducibility. To encourage the shift towards open source, we deliberately made our method usable for anyone with the most basic of R experience, something that is easily acquired. speaq 2.0 allows a stand-alone analysis from spectra to statistical analysis. In addition, the package can be combined with existing tools to improve performance, as it provides a superior peak picking method compared to the standard binning approach.
 Nucleoplasmin 2  ( npm2 ) is an essential maternal-effect gene that mediates early embryonic events through its function as a histone chaperone that remodels chromatin. Here we report the existence of two  npm2  ( npm2a  and  npm2b ) genes in zebrafish. We examined the evolution of  npm2a  and  npm2b  in a variety of vertebrates, their potential phylogenetic relationships, and their biological functions using knockout models via the CRISPR/cas9 system. We demonstrated that the two  npm2  duplicates exist in a wide range of vertebrates, including sharks, ray-finned fish, amphibians, and sauropsids, while  npm2a  was lost in Coelacanth and mammals, as well as some specific teleost lineages. Using phylogeny and synteny analyses, we traced their origins to the early stages of vertebrate evolution. Our findings suggested that  npm2a  and  npm2b  resulted from an ancient local gene duplication, and their functions diverged although key protein domains were conserved. We then investigated their functions by examining their tissue distribution in a wide variety of species and found that they shared ovarian-specific expression, a key feature of maternal-effect genes. We also showed that both  npm2a  and  npm2b  are maternally-inherited transcripts in vertebrates. Moreover, we used zebrafish knockouts to demonstrate that  npm2a  and  npm2b  play essential, but distinct, roles in early embryogenesis.  npm2a  functions very early during embryogenesis, at or immediately after fertilization, while  npm2b  is involved in processes leading up to or during zygotic genome activation. These novel findings will broaden our knowledge on the evolutionary diversity of maternal-effect genes and underlying mechanisms that contribute to vertebrate reproductive success.  Author Summary  The protein and transcript of the  npm2  gene have been previously demonstrated as maternal contributions to embryos of several vertebrates. Recently, two  npm2  genes, denoted here as  npm2a  and  npm2b , were discovered in zebrafish. This study was conducted to explore the evolutionary origin and changes that occurred that culminated in their current functions. We found that an ancient local duplication of the ancestral  npm2  gene created the current two forms, and while most vertebrates retained both genes, notably, mammals and certain species of fish lost  npm2a  and, albeit rarely, both  npm2a  and  npm2b . Our functional analyses showed that  npm2a  and  npm2b  have diverse but essential functions during embryogenesis, as  npm2a  mutants failed to undergo development at the earliest stage while  npm2b  mutants developed, although abnormally, until the zygotic genome activation stage after which their development was arrested followed subsequently by death. Our study is the first to clearly demonstrate the evolution, diversification, and functional analyses of the  npm2  genes, which are essential maternal factors that are required for proper embryonic development and survival.
n behalf of The Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) Proteomics Standards Initiative (PSI), we are here introducing two novel standard data formats, proBAM and proBed, that have been developed to address the current challenges of integrating mass spectrometry based proteomics data with genomics and transcriptomics information in proteogenomics studies. proBAM and proBed are adaptations from the well-defined, widely used file formats SAM/BAM and BED respectively, and both have been extended to meet specific requirements entailed by proteomics data. Therefore, existing popular genomics tools such as SAMtools and Bedtools, and several very popular genome browsers, can be used to manipulate and visualize these formats already out-of-the-box. We also highlight that a number of specific additional software tools, properly supporting the proteomics information available in these formats, are now available providing functionalities such as file generation, file conversion, and data analysis. All the related documentation to the formats, including the detailed file format specifications, and example files are accessible at http://www.psidev.info/probam and http://www.psidev.info/probed.
One of the major challenges in visual neuroscience is represented by foreground-background segmentation. Data from nonhuman primates show that segmentation leads to two distinct, but associated processes: the enhancement of neural activity during figure processing (i.e., foreground enhancement) and the suppression of background-related activity (i.e., background suppression). To study foreground-background segmentation in ecological conditions, we introduce a novel method based on parametric modulation of low-level image properties followed by application of simple computational image-processing models. By correlating the outcome of this procedure with human fMRI activity measured during passive viewing of 334 natural images, we reconstruct easily interpretable neural images from seven visual areas: V1, V2, V3, V3A, V3B, V4 and LOC. Results show evidence of foreground enhancement for all tested regions, while background suppression specifically occurs in V4 and LOC. Neural images reconstructed from V4 and LOC revealed a preserved spatial resolution of foreground textures, indicating a richer representation of the salient part of natural images, rather than a simplistic model of object shape. Our results indicate that scene segmentation is an automatic process that occurs during natural viewing, even when individuals are not required to perform any particular task.
OpenMM is a molecular dynamics simulation toolkit with a unique focus on extensibility. It allows users to easily add new features, including forces with novel functional forms, new integration algorithms, and new simulation protocols. Those features automatically work on all supported hardware types (including both CPUs and GPUs) and perform well on all of them. In many cases they require minimal coding, just a mathematical description of the desired function. They also require no modification to OpenMM itself and can be distributed independently of OpenMM. This makes it an ideal tool for researchers developing new simulation methods, and also allows those new methods to be immediately available to the larger community.
Our ability to unambiguously image and track individual molecules in live cells is limited by packing of multiple copies of labeled molecules within the resolution limit. Here we devise a universal genetic strategy to precisely control copy number of fluorescently labeled molecules in a cell. This system has a dynamic titration range of &amp;gt;10,000 fold, enabling sparse labeling of proteins expressed at different abundance levels. Combined with photostable labels, this system extends the duration of automated single-molecule tracking by 2 orders of magnitude. We demonstrate long-term imaging of synaptic vesicle dynamics in cultured neurons as well as in intact  zebrafish . We found axon initial segment utilizes a waterfall mechanism gating synaptic vesicle transport polarity by promoting anterograde transport processivity. Long-time observation also reveals that transcription factor hops between clustered binding sites in spatially-restricted sub-nuclear regions, suggesting that topological structures in the nucleus shape local gene activities by a sequestering mechanism. This strategy thus greatly expands the spatiotemporal length scales of live-cell single-molecule measurements, enabling new experiments to quantitatively understand complex control of molecular dynamics  in vivo .
Background  Outbreaks linked to cosmetic piercing are rare, but can cause significant illness. We report the investigation and management of a point-source outbreak that occurred during a Black Friday event in North West England.  Methods  Outbreak investigation was led by Public Health England, and included active case finding among individuals pierced at a piercing premises between 25/11/2016 (Black Friday) and 7/12/2016. Detailed epidemiological, environmental (including inspection and sampling), and microbiological investigation was undertaken.  Results  During the Black Friday event (25/11/2016), 45 people were pierced (13 by a newly-appointed practitioner). Eleven cases were identified (7 microbiologically-confirmed, 2 probable, and 2 possible). All cases had clinical signs of infection around piercing sites, and five required surgical intervention, with varying degrees of post-operative disfigurement. All confirmed and probable cases had a scaffold piercing placed with a guide bar by the newly-appointed practitioner.  Pseudomonas aeruginosa,  indistinguishable at nine-locus variable-number tandem repeat loci, was isolated from four of the confirmed cases, and from pre- and post-flush samples from five separate water taps (three sinks) in the premises. Water samples taken after remedial plumbing work confirmed elimination of  Pseudomonas  contamination.  Conclusions  Although high levels of  Pseudomonas  water contamination and some poor infection control procedures were identified, infection appeared to require additional exposure to an inexperienced practitioner, and the more invasive scaffold piercing. A proactive collaborative approach between piercers and health and environmental officials is required to reduce outbreak risk, particularly when unusually large events are planned.
Oxytocin (OT) and Vasopressin (AVP) are neuropeptides with diverse effects on social behavior, cognition and stress responses. Recent studies suggest that OT facilitates and responds to affiliative forms of human-animal interaction (HAI). However, previous studies measuring OT and AVP in dogs have been limited to measures from blood or urine, which present concerns related to the invasiveness of sample collection, the potential for matrix interference in immunoassays, and whether samples can be collected at precise time points to assess event-linked endocrine responses. Previous studies from our laboratory validated salivary measures of OT and AVP in dogs, however, it is currently unknown whether these measures respond dynamically to aspects of HAI. Here, we investigated the effects of affiliative forms of HAI on both plasma and salivary OT and AVP in dogs. We employed a between-subjects design with a group of Labrador retrievers and Labrador retriever X golden retriever crosses (23 females, 15 males). Half of the dogs engaged in 10 minutes of free-form friendly interaction with a human experimenter (HAI condition), and the other half rested quietly in the same environment, without human interaction (control condition). We collected blood and saliva samples before, and immediately following both experimental conditions, and all samples were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) following previously validated protocols. Dogs participating in HAI exhibited a significant increase in both salivary OT (+39%) and plasma OT (+5.7%) whereas dogs in the control group did not. Salivary AVP showed no change in the HAI group but increased significantly (+33%) in the control group. Plasma AVP decreased significantly following HAI (-13%) but did not change across time in the control condition. Within the dogs exposed to HAI, increases in salivary OT, and decreases in plasma AVP, were predicted by the extent of affiliative behaviour between the dog and human (indexed by scores from a principal components analysis of social behaviours between the dog and human). Collectively our results suggest that measures of salivary OT and AVP provide useful biomarkers in studies of HAI, and afford a flexible and noninvasive toolkit than can be employed in diverse research contexts.
Pain is a subjective experience derived from complex interactions among biological, environmental, and psychosocial pathways. Sex differences in pain sensitivity and chronic pain prevalence are well established. However, the molecular causes underlying these sex dimorphisms are poorly understood particularly with regard to the role of the peripheral nervous system. Here we sought to identify shared and distinct gene networks functioning in the peripheral nervous systems that may contribute to sex differences of pain after nerve injury. We performed RNA-seq on dorsal root ganglia following chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve in male and female rats. Analysis from paired naive and injured tissues showed that 1456 genes were differentially expressed between sexes. Appreciating sex-related gene expression differences and similarities in neuropathic pain models may help to improve the translational relevance to clinical populations and efficacy of clinical trials of this major health issue.
Parafusin is a phosphoglucomutase (PGM) paralog that acts as a signaling scaffold protein in calcium mediated exocytosis across many eukaryotes. In  Toxoplasma gondii  the parafusin related protein 1 (PRP1) has been associated in indirect and heterologous studies with the regulated exocytosis of the micronemes, which are required for successful host cell invasion and egress. Here we directly assessed the role of PRP1 by deleting the gene from the parasite. We observed a specific defect in microneme secretion in response to high Ca 2+  fluxes, but not to phosphatidic acid fluxes controlling microneme release. We observed no defect in constitutive microneme secretion which was sufficient to support completion of the lytic cycle. Furthermore, deletion of the other PGM in  Toxoplasma , PGM2, as well as the double PRP1/PGM2 deletion resulted in a similar phenotype. This suggests a functional interaction between these two genes. Strikingly, tachyzoites without both paralogs are completely viable  in vitro  and during acute mice infections. This indicates that PGM activity is neither required for glycolysis. In conclusion, the PRP1-PGM2 pair is required for a burst in microneme secretion upon high Ca 2+  fluxes, but this burst is not essential to complete the lytic cycle of the parasite.  Plain Language Summary  Calcium mediated control of microneme secretion is essential for host cell invasion and egress of  Toxoplasma gondii . Here it is shown that the two phosphoglucomutases in  Toxoplasma  both function in the translation of a spike in calcium into a burst in microneme secretion.
assive acoustic sensing has emerged as a powerful tool for quantifying anthropogenic impacts on biodiversity, especially for echolocating bat species. To better assess bat population trends there is a critical need for accurate, reliable, and open source tools that allow the detection and classification of bat calls in large collections of audio recordings. The majority of existing tools are commercial or have focused on the species classification task, neglecting the important problem of first localizing echolocation calls in audio which is particularly problematic in noisy recordings.  We developed a convolutional neural network (CNN) based open-source pipeline for detecting ultrasonic, full-spectrum, search-phase calls produced by echolocating bats (BatDetect). Our deep learning algorithms (CNN  FULL  and CNN  FAST ) were trained on full-spectrum ultrasonic audio collected along road-transects across Romania and Bulgaria by citizen scientists as part of the iBats programme and labelled by users of www.batdetective.org. We compared the performance of our system to other algorithms and commercial systems on expert verified test datasets recorded from different sensors and countries. As an example application, we ran our detection pipeline on iBats monitoring data collected over five years from Jersey (UK), and compared results to a widely-used commercial system.  Here, we show that both CNN FULL  and CNN FAST  deep learning algorithms have a higher detection performance (average precision, and recall) of search-phase echolocation calls with our test sets, when compared to other existing algorithms and commercial systems tested. Precision scores for commercial systems were reasonably good across all test datasets (&amp;gt;0.7), but this was at the expense of recall rates. In particular, our deep learning approaches were better at detecting calls in road-transect data, which contained more noisy recordings. Our comparison of CNN FULL  and CNN FAST  algorithms was favourable, although CNN FAST  had a slightly poorer performance, displaying a trade-off between speed and accuracy. Our example monitoring application demonstrated that our open-source, fully automatic, BatDetect CNN FAST  pipeline does as well or better compared to a commercial system with manual verification previously used to analyse monitoring data.  We show that it is possible to both accurately and automatically detect bat search-phase echolocation calls, particularly from noisy audio recordings. Our detection pipeline enables the automatic detection and monitoring of bat populations, and further facilitates their use as indicator species on a large scale, particularly when combined with automatic species identification. We release our system and datasets to encourage future progress and transparency.
Pedigree-based analyses of intelligence have reported that genetic differences account for 50-80% of the phenotypic variation. For personality traits these effects are smaller, with 34-48% of the variance being explained by genetic differences. However, molecular genetic studies using unrelated individuals typically report a heritability estimate of around 30% for intelligence and between 0% and 15% for personality variables. Pedigree-based estimates and molecular genetic estimates may differ because current genotyping platforms are poor at tagging causal variants, variants with low minor allele frequency, copy number variants, and structural variants. Using 20 000 individuals in the Generation Scotland family cohort genotyped for 700 000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), we exploit the high levels of linkage disequilibrium (LD) found in members of the same family to quantify the total effect of genetic variants that are not tagged in GWASs of unrelated individuals. In our models, genetic variants in low LD with genotyped SNPs explain over half of the genetic variance in intelligence, education, and neuroticism. By capturing these additional genetic effects our models closely approximate the heritability estimates from twin studies for intelligence and education, but not for neuroticism and extraversion. We then replicated our finding using imputed molecular genetic data from unrelated individuals to show that 50% of differences in intelligence, and 40% of the differences in education, can be explained by genetic effects when a larger number of rare SNPs are included. From an evolutionary genetic perspective, a substantial contribution of rare genetic variants to individual differences in intelligence and education is consistent with mutation-selection balance.
People make surprising but reliable perceptual errors. Here, we provide a unified explanation for errors in the perception of three-dimensional (3D) motion. To do so, we characterized the retinal motion signals produced by objects moving with arbitrary trajectories through arbitrary locations in 3D. Next, we developed a Bayesian model, treating 3D motion perception as optimal inference given sensory noise and the geometry of 3D viewing. The model predicts a wide array of systematic perceptual errors, that depend on stimulus distance, contrast, and eccentricity. We then used a virtual reality (VR) headset as well as a standard 3D display to test these predictions in both traditional psychophysical and more naturalistic settings. We found evidence that people make many of the predicted errors, including a lateral bias in the perception of motion trajectories, a dependency of this bias on stimulus contrast, viewing distance, and eccentricity, and a surprising tendency to misreport approaching motion as receding and vice versa. In sum, we developed a quantitative model that provides a parsimonious account for a range of systematic misperceptions of motion in naturalistic environments.
Persistence and extinction are key processes in infectious disease dynamics that, due to incomplete reporting, are seldom directly observable. For fully-immunizing diseases, reporting probabilities can be readily estimated from demographic records and case reports. Yet reporting probabilities are not sufficient to unambiguously reconstruct disease incidence from case reports. Here, we focus on disease presence (i.e., marginal probability of non-zero incidence), which provides an upper bound on the marginal probability of disease extinction. We examine measles and pertussis in pre-vaccine era U.S. cities, and describe a conserved scaling relationship between population size, reporting probability, and observed presence (i.e., non-zero case reports). We use this relationship to estimate disease presence given perfect reporting, and define cryptic presence as the difference between estimated and observed presence. We estimate that, in early 20  th   century U.S. cities, pertussis presence was higher than measles presence across a range of population sizes, and that cryptic presence was common in small cities with imperfect reporting. While the methods employed here are specific to fully-immunizing diseases, our results suggest that cryptic incidence deserves careful attention, particularly in diseases with low case counts, poor reporting, and longer infectious periods.
Placental health is a key component to healthy pregnancy. Placental insufficiency (PI), inadequate nutrient delivery to the fetus, is associated with preeclampsia (PE), a maternal hypertensive disorder, and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), pathologically poor fetal growth. PI is more common in early-onset PE (EOPE) than late-onset PE (LOPE). However, the relationship between these disorders remains unclear. While DNA methylation (DNAm) alterations have been identified in PE and IUGR, these entities can overlap and few studies have analyzed these separately. This study aims to identify altered DNAm in EOPE, LOPE, and normotensive IUGR, validate these alterations, and use them to better understand the relationships between these related disorders.  Placental samples from a discovery cohort (43 controls, 22 EOPE, 18 LOPE, 11 IUGR) and validation cohort (15 controls, 22 EOPE, 11 LOPE) were evaluated using the Illumina HumanMethylation450 array. To minimize gestational age (GA) effects, EOPE samples were compared to pre-term controls (GA &amp;lt;37 weeks), while LOPE and IUGR were compared to term controls (GA &amp;gt;37 weeks). There were 1703 differentially methylated (DM) sites (FDR&amp;lt;0.05, &amp;gt;0.1) in EOPE, 5 in LOPE, and 0 in IUGR. Of the 1703 EOPE sites, 599 were validated in the second cohort. These sites cluster samples from both cohorts into 3 distinct methylation clusters. Interestingly, LOPE samples diagnosed between 34-36 weeks with co-occurring IUGR clustered with the EOPE methylation cluster. DNAm profiling may provide an independent tool to refine clinical diagnoses into subgroups with more uniform pathology. The challenges in reproducing genome-wide DNAm studies are also discussed.
Plants adjust their architecture by modulating organ growth. This ability is largely dependent on phytohormones. While many genes involved in phytohormone pathways have been identified, it remains unclear to which extent and how these pathways are modulated in non-reference strains and whether this is relevant for local adaptation. Here we assess variation of root traits in response to perturbations of the auxin, cytokinin, and abscisic acid pathways in 192 Arabidopsis accessions. We identify common response patterns, uncover the extent of their modulation by specific genotypes, and find that the Col-0 reference accession is not a good representative of the species in this regard. We conduct GWAS and identify 114 significant associations, most of them relating to ABA treatment. The numerous ABA candidate genes are not enriched for known ABA associated genes indicating that we largely uncovered unknown players. We then study two associated regions in detail and identify the  CRF3  gene as a modulator of multiple hormone pathways. Finally, we show that natural variation in root traits is significantly associated with climate parameters relevant for local adaption in  Arabidopsis thaliana  and that, in particular, ABA regulated lateral root traits are likely to be relevant for adaptation to soil moisture.  Author Summary  The root system is a key component for plant survival and productivity. Apart from anchoring the plant, its architecture determines which parts of the soil are foraged for water and nutrients, and it serves as an interface for interaction with microbes and other soil organisms. Plant hormones play crucial roles in the development of root system architecture and its plasticity. However, while there is substantial natural variation of root architectures, it is not clear to which extent genetic variation in hormone related pathways contribute. Using the model species  Arabidopsis thaliana  we quantitatively explore the breadth of natural variation in plant hormone responses to three major plant hormones: auxin, cytokinin, and abscisic acid. The Col-0 reference strain can be quite different from a large proportion of the natural accessions of the species, illustrating a severe caveat of relying on a single reference strain in model species and drawing generalizations from it. Using GWAS, we further identify a large number of loci underlying the variation of responses to plant hormones, in particular to abscisic acid, find links between local adaptation and root responses to hormones, and finally using mutants for GWAS candidate genes, identify novel players involved in regulating hormone responses.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) regulate various aspects of cellular function including mitotic progression. Although PARP inhibitors have been undergoing various clinical trials and the PARP1/2 inhibitor olaparib was approved as monotherapy for BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer, their mode of action in killing tumour cells is not fully understood. We investigated the effect of PARP inhibition on mitosis in cancerous (cervical, ovary, breast and osteosarcoma) and non-cancerous cells by live-cell imaging. The clinically relevant inhibitor olaparib induced strong perturbations in mitosis, including problems with chromosome alignment at the metaphase plate, anaphase delay, and premature loss of cohesion (cohesion fatigue) after a prolonged metaphase arrest, resulting in sister chromatid scattering. PARP1 and PARP2 depletion suppressed the phenotype while PARP2 overexpression enhanced it, suggesting that olaparib-bound PARP1 and PARP2 rather than the lack of catalytic activity causes this phenotype. Olaparib-induced mitotic chromatid scattering was observed in various cancer cell lines with increased protein levels of PARP1 and PARP2, but not in non-cancer or cancer cell lines that expressed lower levels of PARP1 or PARP2. Interestingly, the sister chromatid scattering phenotype occurred only when olaparib was added during the S-phase preceding mitosis, suggesting that PARP1 and PARP2 entrapment at replication forks impairs sister chromatid cohesion. Clinically relevant DNA-damaging agents that impair replication progression such as topoisomerase inhibitors and cisplatin were also found to induce sister chromatid scattering and metaphase plate alignment problems, suggesting that these mitotic phenotypes are a common outcome of replication perturbation.
Polyacrylamide gels functionalized with extracellular matrix proteins are commonly used as cell culture platforms to evaluate the combined effects of extracellular matrix composition, cell geometry and substrate rigidity on cell physiology. For this purpose, protein transfer onto the surface of polyacrylamide hydrogels must result in geometrically well-resolved micropatterns with homogeneous protein distribution. Yet the outcomes of micropatterning methods have not been pairwise evaluated against these criteria. We report a high-fidelity photoresist lift-off patterning method to pattern ECM proteins on polyacrylamide hydrogels ranging from 5 to 25 kPa. We directly compare the protein transfer efficiency and pattern geometrical accuracy of this protocol to the widely used microcontact printing method. Lift-off patterning achieves higher protein transfer efficiency, increases pattern accuracy, increases pattern yield, and reduces variability of these factors within arrays of patterns as it bypasses the drying and transfer steps of microcontact printing. We demonstrate that lift-off patterned hydrogels successfully control cell size and shape and enable long-term imaging of actin intracellular structure and lamellipodia dynamics when we culture epithelial cells on these substrates.
Positioning of nucleosomes along the genomic DNA is crucial for many cellular processes that include gene regulation and higher order packaging of chromatin. The question of how nucleosome-positioning information from a parent chromatin gets transferred to the daughter chromatin is highly intriguing. Accounting for experimentally known coupling between replisome movement and nucleosome dynamics, we propose a model that can explain the inheritance of nucleosome positioning. Simulating nucleosome dynamics during replication we argue that short pausing of the replication fork, associated with nucleosome disassembly, can be the event crucial for communicating nucleosome positioning information from parent to daughter. We show that the interplay of timescales between nucleosome disassembly (  p  ) at the replication fork and nucleosome sliding behind the fork (  s  ) can give rise to a rich phase diagram having different inherited patterns of nucleosome organization. Our model predicts that only when   p      s   the daughter chromatin can inherit the precise nucleosome positioning of the parent.
Potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD) is a tuber deformity associated with infection by the tuber necrotic strain of  Potato virus Y  (PVY NTN ). PTNRD negatively impacts tuber quality and marketability and poses a serious threat to seed and commercial potato production worldwide. PVY NTN  symptoms differ in the cultivars Waneta and Pike: Waneta expresses severe PTNRD and foliar mosaic with vein and leaf necrosis, whereas Pike does not express PTNRD and mosaic is the only foliar symptom. To map loci that influence tuber and foliar symptoms, 236 F 1  progeny of a cross between Waneta and Pike were inoculated with PVY NTN  isolate NY090029 and genotyped using 12,808 Potato SNPs. Foliar symptom type and severity were monitored for 10 weeks, while tubers were evaluated for PTNRD expression at harvest and again after 60 days in storage. Pairwise correlation analyses indicate a strong association between PTNRD and vein necrosis ( = 0.4195). QTL analyses revealed major-effect QTLs on chromosomes 4 and 5 for mosaic, 4 for PTNRD, and 5 for foliar-necrosis symptoms. Locating QTLs associated with PVY-related symptoms provides a foundation for breeders to develop markers that can be used to screen out potato clones with undesirable phenotypes, e.g., those likely to develop PTNRD or to be symptomless carriers of PVY.
Potential bias introduced during DNA isolation is inadequately explored, although it could have significant impact on downstream analysis. To investigate this in human brain, we isolated DNA from cerebellum and frontal cortex using spin columns under different conditions, and salting-out. We first analysed DNA using array CGH, which revealed a striking wave pattern suggesting primarily GC-rich cerebellar losses, even against matched frontal cortex DNA, with a similar pattern on a SNP array. The aCGH changes varied with the isolation protocol. Droplet digital PCR of two genes also showed protocol-dependent losses. Whole genome sequencing showed GC-dependent variation in coverage with spin column isolation from cerebellum. We also extracted and sequenced DNA from substantia nigra using salting-out and phenol / chloroform. The mtDNA copy number, assessed by reads mapping to the mitochondrial genome, was higher in substantia nigra when using phenol / chloroform. We thus provide evidence for significant method-dependent bias in DNA isolation from human brain, as reported in rat tissues. This may contribute to array waves, and could affect copy number determination, particularly if mosaicism is being sought, and sequencing coverage. Variations in isolation protocol may also affect apparent mtDNA abundance.
Pre-pregnancy maternal obesity is associated with adverse offspring outcomes at birth and later in life. Individual studies have shown that epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation could contribute.  Within the Pregnancy and Childhood Epigenetics (PACE) Consortium, we meta-analysed the association between pre-pregnancy maternal BMI and methylation at over 450,000 sites in newborn blood DNA, across 19 cohorts (9,340 mother-newborn pairs). We attempted to infer causality by comparing effects of maternal versus paternal BMI and incorporating genetic variation. In four additional cohorts (1,817 mother-child pairs), we meta-analysed the association between maternal BMI at the start of pregnancy and blood methylation in adolescents.  In newborns, maternal BMI was associated with small (&amp;lt;0.2% per BMI unit (1kg/m 2 ), P&amp;lt;1.06*10 -7 ) methylation variation at 9,044 sites throughout the genome. Adjustment for estimated cell proportions greatly attenuated the number of significant CpGs to 104, including 86 sites common to the unadjusted model. At 72/86 sites, the direction of association was the same in newborns and adolescents, suggesting persistence of signals. However, we found evidence for a causal intrauterine effect of maternal BMI on newborn methylation at just 8/86 sites.  In conclusion, this well-powered analysis identified robust associations between maternal adiposity and variations in newborn blood DNA methylation, but these small effects may be better explained by genetic or lifestyle factors than a causal intrauterine mechanism. This highlights the need for large-scale collaborative approaches and the application of causal inference techniques in epigenetic epidemiology.
reservation of a balance between synaptic excitation and inhibition is critical for normal brain function. A number of homeostatic cellular mechanisms have been suggested to play a role in maintaining this balance, including long-term plasticity of GABAergic inhibitory synapses. Many previous studies have demonstrated a coupling of postsynaptic spiking with modification of perisomatic inhibition. Here, we demonstrate that activation of NMDA-type glutamate receptors leads to input-specific long-term potentiation of dendritic inhibition mediated by somatostatin-expressing interneurons. This form of plasticity is expressed postsynaptically and requires both CaMKII and the 2-subunit of the GABA-A receptor. Importantly, this process may function to preserve dendritic inhibition, as  in vivo  loss of NMDAR signaling results in a selective weakening of dendritic inhibition. Overall, our results reveal a new mechanism for linking excitatory and inhibitory input in neuronal dendrites and provide novel insight into the homeostatic regulation of synaptic transmission in cortical circuits.
Previous reports of altered grey and white matter structure in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) have been inconsistent. Recent meta-analyses have, however, reported reduced hippocampal grey matter volume in MDD and reduced white matter integrity in several brain regions. The use of different diagnostic criteria, scanners and imaging sequences may, however, obscure further anatomical differences. In this study, we tested for differences in subcortical grey matter volume (n=1157) and white matter integrity (n=1089) between depressed individuals and controls in the subset of 8590 UK Biobank Imaging study participants who had undergone depression assessments. Whilst we found no significant differences in subcortical volumes, significant reductions were found in depressed individuals versus controls in global white matter integrity, as measured by fractional anisotropy (FA) (=-0.182, p=0.005). We also found reductions in FA in association/commissural fibres (=-0.184, p corrected =0.010) and thalamic radiations (=-0.159, p corrected =0.020). Tract-specific FA reductions were also found in the left superior longitudinal fasciculus (=-0.194, p corrected =0.025), superior thalamic radiation (=-0.224, p corrected =0.009) and forceps major (=-0.193, p corrected =0.025) in depression (all betas standardised). Our findings provide further evidence for disrupted white matter integrity in MDD.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) released during hypercapnic challenge increases Ca 2+  oscillation frequency in the chemosensitive parafacial respiratory group (pFRG/RTN). Here, we demonstrate that pFRG/RTN astrocytes are the PGE2 source. Two distinct astrocyte subtypes were found using transgenic mice expressing GFP and MrgA1 receptors in astrocytes. Although most astrocytes appeared dormant during time-lapse calcium imaging, a subgroup displayed persistent, rhythmic oscillating calcium activity. These active astrocytes formed a subnetwork within the respiratory network distinct from the neuronal network. Activation of exogenous MrgA1 receptors expressed in astrocytes tripled their calcium oscillation frequency activity in both the preBtzinger complex and pFRG/RTN. However, neurons in the preBtC were unaffected, whereas neuronal calcium oscillatory frequency in pFRG/RTN doubled. Notably, astrocyte activation in pFRG/RTN triggered local PGE2 release and blunted the hypercapnic response. Thus, astrocytes play an active role in respiratory rhythm modulation, modifying respiratory-related behaviorthrough PGE2 release in the pFRG/RTN.
The primary cilium organizes Hedgehog signaling, shapes embryonic development and is the unifying cause of the ciliopathies. We conducted a functional genomic screen for Hedgehog signaling by engineering antibiotic-based selection of Hedgehog-responsive cells and applying genome-wide CRISPR-mediated gene disruption. The screen robustly identifies factors required for ciliary signaling with few false positives or false negatives. Characterization of hit genes uncovers novel components of several ciliary structures including a protein complex containing - and - tubulin that is required for centriole maintenance. The screen also provides an unbiased tool for classifying ciliopathies and reveals that many forms of congenital heart defects are ciliopathies. Collectively, this screen enables a systematic analysis of ciliary function and of ciliopathies and also defines a versatile platform for dissecting signaling pathways through CRISPR-based screening.
Protein superfamilies can be divided into subfamilies of proteins with different functional characteristics. Their sequences can be classified hierarchically, which is part of sequence function assignation. Typically, there are no clear subfamily hallmarks that would allow pattern-based function assignation by which this task is mostly achieved based on the similarity principle. This is hampered by the lack of a score cut-off that is both sensitive and specific.  HMMER Cut-off Threshold Tool (HMMERCTTER) adds a reliable cut-off threshold to the popular HMMER. Using a high quality superfamily phylogeny, it clusters a set of training sequences such that the cluster-specific HMMER profiles show 100% precision and recall (P&amp;amp;R), thereby generating a specific threshold as inclusion cut-off. Profiles and threshold are then used as classifiers to screen a target dataset. Iterative inclusion of novel sequences to groups and the corresponding HMMER profiles results in high sensitivity while specificity is maintained by imposing 100% P&amp;amp;R. In three presented case studies of protein superfamilies, classification of large datasets with 100% P&amp;amp;R was achieved with over 95% coverage. Limits and caveats are presented and explained.  HMMERCTTER is a promising protein superfamily sequence classifier provided high quality training datasets are used. It provides a decision support system that aids in the difficult task of sequence function assignation in the twilight zone of sequence similarity. A package containing source code and full dataset will be deposited at Github and is available for reviewers at: https://www.dropbox.com/s/aacao6ggcak30bg/Repo.tar.gz?dl=0  Author summary  The enormous amount of genome sequences made available in the last decade provide new challenges for scientists. An important step in genome sequence processing is function assignation of the encoded protein sequences, typically based on the similarity principle: The more similar sequences are, the more likely they encode the same function. However, evolution generated many protein superfamilies that consist of various subfamilies with different functional characteristics, such as substrate specificity, optimal activity conditions or the catalyzed reaction. The classification of superfamily sequences to their respective subfamilies can be performed based on similarity but since the different subfamilies also remain similar, it requires a reliable similarity score cut-off.  We present a tool that clusters training sequences and describes them in profiles that identify cluster members with higher similarity scores than non-cluster members, i.e. with 100% precision and recall. This defines a score cut-off threshold. Profiles and thresholds are then used to classify other sequences. Classified sequences are included in the profiles in order to improve sensitivity while maintaining specificity by imposing 100% precision and recall. Results on three case studies show that the tool can correctly classify complex superfamilies with over 95% coverage.  HMMERCTTER is meant as a decision support system for the expert biologist rather than the computational biologist.
Background  Psychiatric disorders are multigenic diseases with complex etiology contributing significantly to human morbidity and mortality. Although clinically distinct, several disorders share many symptoms suggesting common underlying molecular changes exist that may implicate important regulators of pathogenesis and new therapeutic targets.  Results  We compared molecular signatures across brain regions and disorders in the transcriptomes of postmortem human brain samples. We performed RNA sequencing on tissue from the anterior cingulate cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and nucleus accumbens from three groups of 24 patients each diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major depressive disorder, and from 24 control subjects, and validated the results in an independent cohort. The most significant disease differences were in the anterior cingulate cortex of schizophrenia samples compared to controls. Transcriptional changes were assessed in an independent cohort, revealing the transcription factor  EGR1  as significantly down regulated in both cohorts and as a potential regulator of broader transcription changes observed in schizophrenia patients. Additionally, broad down regulation of genes specific to neurons and concordant up regulation of genes specific to astrocytes was observed in SZ and BPD patients relative to controls. We also assessed the biochemical consequences of gene expression changes with untargeted metabolomic profiling and identified disruption of GABA levels in schizophrenia patients.  Conclusions  We provide a comprehensive post-mortem transcriptome profile of three psychiatric disorders across three brain regions. We highlight a high-confidence set of independently validated genes differentially expressed between schizophrenia and control patients in the anterior cingulate cortex and integrate transcriptional changes with untargeted metabolite profiling.
Background  Publicly available genomic data are a valuable resource for studying normal human variation and disease, but these data are often not well labeled or annotated. The lack of phenotype information for public genomic data severely limits their utility for addressing targeted biological questions.  Results  We develop an  in silico phenotyping  approach for predicting critical missing annotation directly from genomic measurements using, well-annotated genomic and phenotypic data produced by consortia like TCGA and GTEx as training data. We apply  in silico phenotyping  to a set of 70,000 RNA-seq samples we recently processed on a common pipeline as part of the  recount2  project (https://jhubiostatistics.shinyapps.io/recount/). We use gene expression data to build and evaluate predictors for both biological phenotypes (sex, tissue, sample source) and experimental conditions (sequencing strategy). We demonstrate how these predictions can be used to study cross-sample properties of public genomic data, select genomic projects with specific characteristics, and perform downstream analyses using predicted phenotypes. The methods to perform phenotype prediction are available in the  phenopredict  R package (https://github.com/leekgroup/phenopredict) and the predictions for  recount2  are available from the  recount  R package (https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/recount.html)  Conclusion  Having leveraging massive public data sets to generate a well-phenotyped set of expression data for more than 70,000 human samples, expression data is available for use on a scale that was not previously feasible.
Quantifying cell morphology is fundamental to the statistical study of cell populations, and can help us unravel mechanisms underlying cell and tissue morphogenesis. Current methods, however, require extensive human intervention, are highly sensitive to parameter choice, or produce metrics that are difficult to interpret biologically. We therefore developed a novel method, Lobe Contribution Elliptical Fourier Analysis (LOCO-EFA), which generates from digitalised cell outlines meaningful descriptors that can be directly matched to morphological features. We show that LOCO-EFA provides a tool to phenotype efficiently and objectively populations of cells by applying it to the complex shaped pavement cells of  Arabidopsis thaliana  wild type and  speechless  leaves. To further validate our method, we analysed computer-generated tissues, where cell shape can be specified in a controlled manner. LOCO-EFA quantifies deviations between the specified shape that an individual  in silico  cell takes up when in isolation and the resultant shape when they are allowed to interact within a confluent tissue, thereby assessing the role of cell-cell interactions on population cell shape distributions.   Summary statement   Novel method (LOCO-EFA) quantifies complex cell shapes, extracting meaningful biological features such as protrusion number and amplitude; here shown for plant pavement cells and validated on  in silico  tissues.
Comparing soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks across space and time is a fundamental issue in global ecology. However, the conventional approach fails to determine SOC stock in an equivalent volume of mineral-soil, and therefore, SOC stock changes can be under- or overestimates if soils swell or shrink during forest development or degradation. Here, we propose to estimate SOC stock as the product of mineral-soil mass in an equivalent mineral-soil volume and SOC concentration expressed as g C Kg -1  mineral-soil. This method enables researchers to compare SOC stocks across space and time. Our results show an unaccounted SOC accumulation of 2.4 - 10.1 g C m -2  year -1  in the 1m surface mineral-soils in global forests. This unaccounted SOC amounts to an additional C sink of 0.12  0.25 Pg C year -1 , which equals 30  62% of the previously estimated annual SOC accumulation in global forests. This finding suggests that forest soils are stronger C sinks than previously recognized.
ve measurement of mRNA levels in single cells is necessary to understand phenotypic variability within an otherwise isogenic population of cells. Single-molecule mRNA Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) has been established as the standard method for this purpose, but current protocols require a long region of mRNA to be targeted by multiple DNA probes. Here, we introduce a new single-probe FISH protocol termed sFISH for budding yeast,  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  using a single DNA probe labeled with a single fluorophore. In sFISH, we markedly improved probe specificity and signal-to-background ratio by using methanol fixation and inclined laser illumination. We show that sFISH reports mRNA changes that correspond to protein levels and gene copy number. Using this new FISH protocol, we can detect more than 50% of the total target mRNA. We also demonstrate the versatility of sFISH using FRET detection and mRNA isoform profiling as examples. Our FISH protocol with single-fluorophore sensitivity significantly reduces cost and time compared to the conventional FISH protocols and opens up new opportunities to investigate small changes in RNA at the single cell level.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are produced transiently in response to cell stimuli, and function as second messengers that oxidize target proteins. Protein-tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are important ROS targets, whose oxidation results in rapid, reversible, catalytic inactivation. Despite increasing evidence for the importance of PTP oxidation in signal transduction, the cell biological details of ROS-catalyzed PTP inactivation have remained largely unclear, due to our inability to visualize PTP oxidation in cells. By combining proximity ligation assay (PLA) with chemical labeling of cysteine residues in the sulfenic acid state, we visualize oxidized Src homology 2 domain-containing protein-tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2). We find that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) evokes transient oxidation on or close to RAB5+/EEA1-endosomes. SHP2 oxidation requires NADPH oxidases (NOXs), and oxidized SHP2 co-localizes with PDGF receptor and NOX1/4. Our data demonstrate spatially and temporally limited protein oxidation within cells, and suggest that PDGF-dependent redoxosomes, contribute to proper signal transduction.
Recent evidence shows that mutations in several driver genes can cause aberrant methylation patterns, a hallmark of cancer. In light of these findings, we hypothesized that the landscapes of tumor genomes and epigenomes are tightly interconnected. We measured this relationship using principal component analyses and methylation-mutation associations applied at the nucleotide level and with respect to genome-wide trends. We found a few mutated driver genes were associated with genome-wide patterns of aberrant hypomethylation or CpG island hypermethylation in specific cancer types. We identified associations between 737 mutated driver genes and site-specific methylation changes. Moreover, using these mutation-methylation associations, we were able to distinguish between two uterine and two thyroid cancer subtypes. The driver gene mutation-associated methylation differences between the thyroid cancer subtypes were linked to differential gene expression in JAK-STAT signaling, NADPH oxidation, and other cancer-related pathways. These results establish that driver-gene mutations are associated with methylation alterations capable of shaping regulatory network functions. In addition, the methodology presented here can be used to subdivide tumors into more homogeneous subsets corresponding to their underlying molecular characteristics, which could improve treatment efficacy.  Author summary  Mutations that alter the function of driver genes by changing DNA nucleotides have been recognized as a key player in cancer progression. Recent evidence showed that DNA methylation, a molecular signature that is used for controlling gene expression and that consists of cytosine residues with attached methyl groups in the context of CG dinucleotides, is also highly dysregulated in cancer and contributes to carcinogenesis. However, whether those methylation alterations correspond to mutated driver genes in cancer remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed 4,302 tumors from 18 cancer types and demonstrated that driver gene mutations are inherently connected with the aberrant DNA methylation landscape in cancer. We showed that those driver gene-associated methylation patterns can classify heterogeneous tumors in a cancer type into homogeneous subtypes and have the potential to influence the genes that contribute to tumor growth. This finding could help us to better understand the fundamental connection between driver gene mutations and DNA methylation alterations in cancer and to further improve the cancer treatment.
Recent genome analyses have identified recurrent mutations in the cohesin complex in a wide range of human cancers. Here we demonstrate that the most frequently mutated subunit of the cohesin complex,  STAG2 , displays a strong synthetic lethal interaction with its paralog  STAG1 . Mechanistically, STAG1 loss abrogates sister chromatid cohesion in  STAG2  mutated but not in wild-type cells leading to mitotic catastrophe, defective cell division and apoptosis. STAG1 inactivation inhibits the proliferation of STAG2 mutated but not wild-type bladder cancer and Ewing sarcoma cell lines. Restoration of STAG2 expression in a mutated bladder cancer model alleviates the dependency on STAG1. Thus, STAG1 and STAG2 support sister chromatid cohesion to redundantly ensure cell survival. STAG1 represents a vulnerability of cancer cells carrying mutations in the major emerging tumor suppressor  STAG2  across different cancer contexts. Exploiting synthetic lethal interactions to target recurrent cohesin mutations in cancer, e.g. by inhibiting STAG1, holds the promise for the development of selective therapeutics.
Recent studies have analyzed large scale data sets of gene expression to identify genes associated with inter-individual variation in phenotypes ranging from cancer sub-types to drug sensitivity, promising new avenues of research in personalized medicine. However, gene expression data alone is limited in its ability to reveal cis-regulatory mechanisms underlying phenotypic differences. In this study, we develop a new probabilistic model, called pGENMi, that integrates multi-omics data to investigate the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying inter-individual variation of a specific phenotype  that of cell line response to cytotoxic treatment. In particular, pGENMi simultaneously analyzes genotype, DNA methylation, gene expression and transcription factor (TF)-DNA binding data, along with phenotypic measurements, to identify TFs regulating the phenotype. It does so by combining statistical information about expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and expression-correlated methylation marks (eQTMs) located within TF binding sites, as well as observed correlations between gene expression and phenotype variation. Application of pGENMi to data from a panel of lymphoblastoid cell lines treated with 24 drugs, in conjunction with ENCODE TF ChIP data, yielded a number of known as well as novel TF-drug associations. Experimental validations by TF knock-down confirmed 41% of the predicted and tested associations, compared to a 12% confirmation rate of tested non-associations (controls). Extensive literature survey also corroborated 62% of the predicted associations above a stringent threshold. Moreover, associations predicted only when combining eQTL and eQTM data showed higher precision compared to an eQTL-only or eQTM-only analysis with the same method, further demonstrating the value of multi-omic integrative analysis.
Recent studies have highlighted super-enhancers (SEs) as important regulatory elements for gene expression, but their intrinsic properties remain incompletely characterized. Through an integrative analysis of Hi-C and ChIP-seq data, we find that a significant fraction of SEs are hierarchically organized, containing both hub and non-hub enhancers. Hub enhancers share similar histone marks with non-hub enhancers, but are distinctly associated with cohesin and CTCF binding sites and disease-associated genetic variants. Genetic ablation of hub enhancers results in profound defects in gene activation and local chromatin landscape. As such, hub enhancers are the major constituents responsible for SE functional and structural organization.
Carcinogenesis is an evolutionary process driven by the accumulation of genomic aberrations. Recurrent sequences of genomic changes, both between and within patients, reflect repeated evolution that is valuable for anticipating cancer progression. Multi-region sequencing and phylogenetic analysis allow inference of the partial temporal order of genomic changes within a patients tumour. However, the inherent stochasticity of the evolutionary process makes phylogenetic trees from different patients appear very distinct, preventing the robust identification of recurrent evolutionary trajectories. Here we present a novel quantitative method based on a machine learning approach called Transfer Learning (TL) that allows overcoming the stochastic effects of cancer evolution and highlighting hidden recurrences in cancer patient cohorts. When applied to multi-region sequencing datasets from lung, breast and renal cancer (708 samples from 160 patients), our method detected repeated evolutionary trajectories that determine novel patient subgroups, which reproduce in large singlesample cohorts (n=2,641) and have prognostic value. Our method provides a novel patient classification measure that is grounded in the cancer evolution paradigm, and which reveals repeated evolution during tumorigenesis, with implications for our ability to anticipate malignant evolution.
Background  Red hair is associated with pain sensitivity, and more so in women than in men. Hair redness may thus interact with a female-specific factor. We tested this hypothesis on a large sample of Czech and Slovak respondents. They were asked about the natural redness and darkness of their hair, their natural eye color, their physical and mental health (24 categories), and other personal attributes (height, weight, number of children, lifelong number of sexual partners, frequency of smoking).  Results  We found that red-haired women did worse than other women in ten health categories and better in only three. In particular, they were more prone to colorectal, cervical, uterine, and ovarian cancer. Cancer risk increased steadily with increasing hair redness except for the reddest shade. Red-haired men showed a balanced pattern of health effects, doing better than other men in three categories and worse in three. Number of children was the only category where both male and female redheads did better than other respondents. We also confirmed earlier findings that red hair is naturally more frequent in women than in men.  Conclusion  Red-haired women had higher fecundity and sexual attractiveness, but this selective advantage seems offset by worse health outcomes and therefore lower viability. The resulting equilibrium between these two counterbalancing forces might explain why red hair has remained less common than other hair and eye colors. Of the new hair and eye colors, red hair diverges the most from the ancestral state of black hair and brown eyes. It is the most sexually dimorphic variant, not only in population frequency but also in health outcomes. This sexual dimorphism seems to have resulted from a selection pressure that acted primarily on early European women and which led to a general and apparently rapid diversification of hair and eye colors.
Regenerating tissue must initiate the signaling that drives regenerative growth, and sustain that signaling long enough for regeneration to complete. How these key signals are sustained is unclear. To gain a comprehensive view of the changes in gene expression that occur during regeneration, we performed wholegenome mRNAseq of actively regenerating tissue from damaged  Drosophila  wing imaginal discs. We used genetic tools to ablate the wing primordium to induce regeneration, and carried out transcriptional profiling of the regeneration blastema by fluorescent labeling and sorting the blastema cells, thus identifying differentially expressed genes. Importantly, by using genetic mutants of several of these differentially expressed genes we have confirmed that they have roles in regeneration. Using this approach, we show that high expression of the gene  moladietz  ( mol ), which encodes the Duox-maturation factor NIP, is required during regeneration to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS), which in turn sustain JNK signaling during regeneration. We also show that JNK signaling upregulates  mol  expression, thereby activating a positive feedback signal that ensures the prolonged JNK activation required for regenerative growth. Thus, by wholegenome transcriptional profiling of regenerating tissue we have identified a positive feedback loop that regulates the extent of regenerative growth.  Author summary  Regenerating tissue must initiate the signaling that drives regenerative growth, and then sustain that signaling long enough for regeneration to complete.  Drosophila  imaginal discs, the epithelial structures in the larva that will form the adult animal during metamorphosis, have been an important model system for tissue repair and regeneration for over 60 years. Here we show that damage-induced JNK signaling leads to the upregulation of a gene called  moladietz , which encodes a co-factor for an enzyme, NADPH dual oxidase (DUOX), that generates reactive oxygen species (ROS), a key tissue-damage signal. High expression of  moladietz  induces continuous production of ROS in the regenerating tissue. The sustained production of ROS then continues to activate JNK signaling throughout the course of regeneration, ensuring maximal tissue regrowth.
Regeneration-capable flatworms are informative research models to study the mechanisms of stem cell regulation, regeneration and tissue patterning. However, the lack of transgenesis methods significantly hampers their wider use. Here we report development of a transgenesis method for  Macrostomum lignano , a basal flatworm with excellent regeneration capacity. We demonstrate that microinjection of DNA constructs into fertilized one-cell stage eggs, followed by a low dose of irradiation, frequently results in random integration of the transgene in the genome and its stable transmission through the germline. To facilitate selection of promoter regions for transgenic reporters, we assembled and annotated the  M. lignano  genome, including genome-wide mapping of transcription start regions, and showed its utility by generating multiple stable transgenic lines expressing fluorescent proteins under several tissue-specific promoters. The reported transgenesis method and annotated genome sequence will permit sophisticated genetic studies on stem cells and regeneration using  M. lignano  as a model organism.
In sepsis caused by Gram-negative bacteria, modulation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activity by modulators such as glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa (GRP78), is believed to shift the equilibrium between pro- and anti-inflammatory downstream signaling cascade. We measured daily mRNA  tlr4  and  grp78  expression levels in peripheral blood of a cohort of septic patients, upon intensive care admission, and modeled these mRNA values based on a sine damping function. We obtained negative correlations between  tlr4  and  grp78  mRNA in the survivor group. In contrast, such relation is lost in the deceased patients. Loss of homeostasis predicted by our model within the initial 5 days of hospitalization was confirmed by death of those patients up to 28 days later. Measuring the correlation patterns of the expression of these two genes serves as a robust means to gauge sepsis progression, requiring only three points of measurement on the first day of hospitalization.
egulation is central to the functional versatility of cytoplasmic dynein, a motor involved in intracellular transport, cell division, and neurodevelopment. Previous work established that Lis1, a conserved and ubiquitous regulator of dynein, binds to its motor domain and induces a tight microtubule-binding state in dynein. The work we present herea combination of biochemistry, single-molecule assays, cryo-electron microscopy and in vivo experimentsled to the surprising discovery that Lis1 has two opposing modes of regulating dynein, being capable of inducing both low and high affinity for the microtubule. We show that these opposing modes depend on the stoichiometry of Lis1 binding to dynein and that this stoichiometry is regulated by the nucleotide state of dyneins AAA3 domain. We present data on the in vitro and in vivo consequences of abolishing the novel Lis1-induced weak microtubule-binding state in dynein and propose a new model for the regulation of dynein by Lis1.
Repetitive DNA sequences are subject to gene silencing in various animal species. Under specific circumstances repetitive DNA sequences can escape such silencing. For example, when exogenously added, extrachromosomal DNA sequences that are stably inherited in multicopy repetitive arrays in the nematode  C. elegans  are frequently silenced in the germline, whereas such silencing often does not occur in the soma. This indicates that somatic cells might utilize factors that prevent repetitive DNA silencing. Indeed, such anti-silencing factors have been revealed through genetic screens that identified mutant loci in which repetitive transgenic arrays are aberrantly silenced in the soma. We describe here a novel locus,  pals-22  (for protein containing ALS2CR12 domain), required to prevent silencing of repetitive transgenes in neurons and other somatic tissue types.  pals-22  deficiency also severely impacts animal vigor and confers phenotypes reminiscent of accelerated aging. We find that  pals-22  is a member of a large family of divergent genes (39 members), defined by the presence of an ALS2CR12 domain. While gene family members are highly divergent, they show striking patterns of genomic clustering. The family expansion appears  C. elegans- specific and has not occurred to the same extent in other nematode species. Previous transcriptome analysis has revealed that most of the  pals  genes are induced under stress conditions or upon infection by intracellular parasites. The transgene silencing phenotype observed upon loss of cytoplasmically localized PALS-22 protein depends on the biogenesis of small RNAs, since silencing is abolished in the RNAi defective mutant  rde-4 , suggesting that  pals-22  might regulate RNAi dependent silencing in the cytoplasm of neurons and other tissues. We speculate that the  pals  gene family may be part of a species-specific cellular defense mechanism.
Replicative helicases of all cell types are rings that unwind DNA by steric exclusion in which the helicase ring only encircles the tracking strand, excluding the other strand outside the ring. Steric exclusion mediated unwinding enables helicase rings to bypass blocks on the strand that is excluded from the central channel. Unlike other replicative helicases, eukaryotic CMG encircles duplex DNA at a forked junction and is stopped by a block on the non-tracking (lagging) strand. This report demonstrates that Mcm10, an essential replication protein unique to eukaryotes, binds CMG and enables the replisome to bypass blocks on the non-tracking strand, implying that Mcm10 isomerizes the CMG-DNA complex to position only one strand through the central channel. A similar CMG-DNA isomerization is needed at the origin for head-to-head CMGs to bypass one another during formation of bidirectional replication forks.
Rho-GTPases are master regulators of polarity establishment and cell morphology. Positive feedback enables concentration of Rho-GTPases into clusters at the cell cortex, from where they regulate the cytoskeleton. Different cell types reproducibly generate either one (e.g. the front of a migrating cell) or several clusters (e.g. the multiple dendrites of a neuron), but the mechanistic basis for uni-polar or multi-polar outcomes is unclear. The design principles of Rho-GTPase circuits are captured by reaction-diffusion models based on conserved aspects of Rho-GTPase biochemistry. Some such models display rapid winner-takes-all competition between clusters, yielding a unipolar outcome. Other models allow prolonged co-existence of clusters. We derive a saturation rule general to all relevant models that governs the timescale of competition, and thereby predicts whether the system will generate uni-polar or multi-polar outcomes. We suggest that the saturation rule is a fundamental property of the Rho-GTPase polarity machinery, regardless of the specific feedback mechanism.
RNA regulation is significantly dependent on its binding protein partner, which is known as the RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Unfortunately, the binding preferences for most RBPs are still not well characterized, especially on the structure point of view. Informative signals hiding and interdependencies between sequence and structure specificities are two challenging problems for both predicting RBP binding sites and accurate sequence and structure motifs mining.  In this study, we propose a deep learning-based method, iDeepS, to simultaneously identify the binding sequence and structure motifs from RNA sequences using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and a bidirectional long short term memory network (BLSTM). We first perform one-hot encoding for both the sequence and predicted secondary structure, which are appropriate for subsequent convolution operations. To reveal the hidden binding knowledge from the observations, the CNNs are applied to learn the abstract motif features. Considering the close relationship between sequences and predicted structures, we use the BLSTM to capture the long range dependencies between binding sequence and structure motifs identified by the CNNs. Finally, the learned weighted representations are fed into a classification layer to predict the RBP binding sites. We evaluated iDeepS on verified RBP binding sites derived from large-scale representative CLIP-seq datasets, and the results demonstrate that iDeepS can reliably predict the RBP binding sites on RNAs, and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. An important advantage is that iDeepS is able to automatically extract both binding sequence and structure motifs, which will improve our transparent understanding of the mechanisms of binding specificities of RBPs. iDeepS is available at https://github.com/xypan1232/iDeepS.
The extent to which the genes are expressed in the cell can be simplistically defined as a function of one or more factors of the environment, lifestyle, and genetics. RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is becoming a prevalent approach to quantify gene expression, and is expected to gain better insights to a number of biological and biomedical questions, compared to the DNA microarrays. Most importantly, RNA-Seq allows to quantify expression at the gene and alternative splicing isoform levels. However, leveraging the RNA-Seq data requires development of new data mining and analytics methods. Supervised machine learning methods are commonly used approaches for biological data analysis, and have recently gained attention for their applications to the RNA-Seq data.  In this work, we assess the utility of supervised learning methods trained on RNA-Seq data for a diverse range of biological classification tasks. We hypothesize that the isoform-level expression data is more informative for biological classification tasks than the gene-level expression data. Our large-scale assessment is done through utilizing multiple datasets, organisms, lab groups, and RNA-Seq analysis pipelines. Overall, we performed and assessed 61 biological classification problems that leverage three independent RNA-Seq datasets and include over 2,000 samples that come from multiple organisms, lab groups, and RNA-Seq analyses. These 61 problems include predictions of the tissue type, sex, or age of the sample, healthy or cancerous phenotypes and, the pathological tumor stage for the samples from the cancerous tissue. For each classification problem, the performance of three normalization techniques and six machine learning classifiers was explored. We find that for every single classification problem, the isoform-based classifiers outperform or are comparable with gene expression based methods. The top-performing supervised learning techniques reached a near perfect classification accuracy, demonstrating the utility of supervised learning for RNA-Seq based data analysis.
RNA-seq is commonly used to identify genetic modules that respond to perturbations. In single cells, transcriptomes have been used as phenotypes, but this concept has not been applied to whole-organism RNA-seq. Linear models can quantify expression effects of individual mutants and identify epistatic effects in double mutants. To make interpretation of these high-dimensional measurements intuitive, we developed a single coefficient to quantify transcriptome-wide epistasis that accurately reflects the underlying interactions. To demonstrate our approach, we sequenced four single and two double mutants of  Caenorhabditis elegans . From these mutants, we reconstructed the known hypoxia pathway. In addition, we uncovered a class of 56 genes that have opposing changes in expression in  egl-9(lf)  compared to  vhl-1(lf)  but the  egl-9(lf); vhl-1(lf)  mutant has the same phenotype as  egl-9(lf) . This class violates the classical model of HIF-1 regulation, but can be explained by postulating a role of hydroxylated HIF-1 in transcriptional control.  Significance Statement  Transcriptome profiling is a way to quickly and quantitatively measure gene expression level. Because of their quantitative nature, there is widespread interest in using transcriptomic profiles as a phenotype for genetic analysis. However, a source of major concern is that whole-animal transcriptomic profiles mix the expression signatures of multiple cellular states, making it hard to accurately reconstruct genetic interactions. Additionally, it has been difficult to quantify epistasis, the signature of genetic interaction between two genes, in these molecular phenotypes. Here, we show that it is possible to accurately reconstruct genetic interactions between genes using whole-animal RNA sequencing, and we demonstrate a powerful new way to measure and understand epistasis arising from these measurements. This suggests that whole-organism RNA-seq can be a powerful tool with which to understand genetic interactions in entire organisms and not only in isolated cells. With the advent of genome engineering tools, generating mutants has become easier and faster for many organisms. As mutants become easier to create, phenotyping them has become a major bottleneck in understanding the biological functions of the genes in question. Our work presents a possible solution to this problem, because transcriptome profiling is fast and sensitive to genetic perturbations regardless of the context they operate in.
Summary  Segway performs semi-automated genome annotation, discovering joint patterns across multiple genomic signal datasets. We discuss a major new version of Segway and highlight its ability to model data with substantially greater accuracy. Major enhancements in Segway 2.0 include the ability to model data with a mixture of Gaussians, enabling capture of arbitrarily complex signal distributions, and minibatch training, leading to better learned parameters.  Availability and Implementation  Segway and its source code are freely available for download at https://segway.hoffmanlab.org. We have made available scripts (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.802940) and datasets (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.802907) for this papers analysis.  Contact  michael.hoffman@utoronto.ca
 Selective-plane illumination microscopy (SPIM) provides unparalleled advantages for volumetric imaging of living organisms over extended times. However, the spatial configuration of a SPIM system often limits its compatibility with many widely used biological sample holders such as multi-well chambers and plates. To solve this problem, we developed a high numerical aperture (NA) open-top configuration that places both the excitation and detection objectives on the opposite of the sample coverglass. We carried out a theoretical calculation to analyze the structure of the system-induced aberrations. We then experimentally compensated the system aberrations using adaptive optics combined with static optical components, demonstrating near-diffraction-limited performance in imaging fluorescently labeled cells.   2017 Optical Society of America   OCIS codes:  (080.080) Geometric Optics; (110.0110) Imaging systems; (110.0180) Microscopy.
Sensitivity, dynamic and detection range as well as exclusion of expression and instrumental artifacts are critical for the quantitation of data obtained with fluorescent protein (FP)-based biosensors  in vivo . Current biosensors designs are, in general, unable to simultaneously meet all these criteria. Here, we describe a generalizable platform to create dual-FP biosensors with large dynamic ranges by employing a single FP-cassette, named GO-(Green-Orange) Matryoshka. The cassette nests a stable reference FP (large Stokes shift LSSmOrange) within a reporter FP (circularly permuted green FP). GO-Matryoshka yields green and orange fluorescence upon blue excitation. As proof of concept, we converted existing, single-emission biosensors into a series of ratiometric calcium sensors (MatryoshCaMP6s) and ammonium transport activity sensors (AmTryoshka1;3). We additionally identified the internal acid-base equilibrium as a key determinant of the GCaMP dynamic range. Matryoshka technology promises flexibility in the design of a wide spectrum of ratiometric biosensors and expanded  in vivo  applications.
Serial block face scanning electron microscopy (SBF-SEM) is a relatively new technique that allows the acquisition of serially sectioned, imaged and digitally aligned ultrastructural data. There is a wealth of information that can be obtained from the resulting image stacks but this presents a new challenge for researchers - how to computationally analyse and make best use of the large data sets produced. One approach is to reconstruct structures and features of interest in 3D. However the software programs can appear overwhelming, time consuming and not intuitive for those new to image analysis. There are a limited number of published articles that provide sufficient detail on how to do this type of reconstruction. Therefore the aim of this paper is to provide a detailed step-by-step protocol, videos and explanation on the types of analysis and programs that can be used. To showcase the programs, skeletal muscle from fetal and adult guinea pigs were used. The tissue was processed using the heavy metal protocol developed specifically for SBFSEM. Trimmed resin blocks were placed into a Zeiss Sigma SEM incorporating the Gatan 3View and the resulting image stacks were analysed in 3 different programs, Fiji, Amira and MIB, using a range of tools available for segmentation. The results from the image analysis comparison show that the analysis tools are often more suited to a type of structure. For example larger structures, such as nuclei and cells, can be segmented using interpolation, which speeds up analysis; single contrast structures, such as the nucleolus, can be segmented using the contrast-based thresholding tools. Knowing the nature of the tissue and its specific structures (complexity, contrast, if there are distinct membranes, size) will help to determine the best method for reconstruction and thus maximising output from valuable tissue.
Several metabolic enzymes undergo reversible polymerization into macromolecular assemblies. The function of these assemblies is often unclear but in some cases they regulate enzyme activity and metabolic homeostasis. The guanine nucleotide biosynthetic enzyme inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) forms octamers that polymerize into helical chains. In mammalian cells, IMPDH filaments can associate into micron-length assemblies. Polymerization and enzyme activity are regulated in part by binding of purine nucleotides to an allosteric regulatory domain. ATP promotes octamer polymerization, whereas GTP promotes a compact, inactive conformation whose ability to polymerize is unknown. An open question is whether polymerization directly alters IMPDH catalytic activity. To address this, we identified point mutants of human IMPDH2 that either prevent or promote polymerization. Unexpectedly, we found that polymerized and non-assembled forms of IMPDH have comparable catalytic activity, substrate affinity, and GTP sensitivity and validated this finding in cells. Electron microscopy revealed that substrates and allosteric nucleotides shift the equilibrium between active and inactive conformations in both the octamer and the filament. Unlike other metabolic filaments, which selectively stabilize active or inactive conformations, IMPDH filaments accommodate multiple states. Thus, although polymerization alone does not impact catalytic activity, substrate availability and purine balance dramatically affect IMPDH filament architecture.
Sheep are a key source of meat, milk and fibre for the global livestock sector, and an important biomedical model. Global analysis of gene expression across multiple tissues has aided genome annotation and supported functional annotation of mammalian genes. We present a large-scale RNA-Seq dataset representing all the major organ systems from adult sheep and from several juvenile, neonatal and prenatal developmental time points. The  Ovis aries  reference genome (Oar v3.1) includes 27,504 genes (20,921 protein coding), of which 25,350 (19,921 protein coding) had detectable expression in at least one tissue in the sheep gene expression atlas dataset. Network-based cluster analysis of this dataset grouped genes according to their expression pattern. The principle of guilt by association was used to infer the function of uncharacterised genes from their co-expression with genes of known function. We describe the overall transcriptional signatures present in the sheep gene expression atlas and assign those signatures, where possible, to specific cell populations or pathways. The findings are related to innate immunity by focusing on clusters with an immune signature, and to the advantages of cross-breeding by examining the patterns of genes exhibiting the greatest expression differences between purebred and crossbred animals. This high-resolution gene expression atlas for sheep is, to our knowledge, the largest transcriptomic dataset from any livestock species to date. It provides a resource to improve the annotation of the current reference genome for sheep, presenting a model transcriptome for ruminants and insight into gene, cell and tissue function at multiple developmental stages.  Author Summary  Sheep are ruminant mammals kept as livestock for the production of meat, milk and wool in agricultural industries across the globe. Genetic and genomic information can be used to improve production traits such as disease resiliance. The sheep genome is however missing important information relating to gene function and many genes, which may be important for productivity, have no informative gene name. This can be remedied using RNA-Sequencing to generate a global expression profile of all protein-coding genes, across multiple organ systems and developmental stages. Clustering genes based on their expression profile across tissues and cells allows us to assign function to those genes. If for example a gene with no informative gene name is expressed in macrophages and is found within a cluster of known macrophage related genes it is likely to be involved in macrophage function and play a role in innate immunity. This information improves the quality of the reference genome and provides insight into biological processes underlying the complex traits that influence the productivity of sheep and other livestock species.
Shellfish-transmitted  Vibrio parahaemolyticus  infections have recently increased from locations with historically low disease incidence, such as the Northeast United States (US). This change coincided with a bacterial population shift towards human pathogenic variants occurring in part through the introduction of several Pacific native lineages (ST36, ST43 and ST636) to near-shore areas off the Atlantic coast of the Northeast US. Concomitantly, ST631 emerged as a major endemic pathogen. Phylogenetic trees of clinical and environmental isolates indicated that two clades diverged from a common ST631 ancestor, and in each of these clades, a human pathogenic variant evolved independently through acquisition of distinct  Vibrio  pathogenicity islands (VPaI). These VPaI differ from each other and bear little resemblance to hemolysin-containing VPaI from isolates of the pandemic clonal complex. Clade I ST631 isolates either harbored no hemolysins, or contained a chromosome I-inserted island we call VPaI that encodes a type three secretion system (T3SS2) typical of Trh hemolysin-producers. The more clinically prevalent and clonal ST631 clade II had an island we call VPaI that encodes both  tdh  and  trh  and that was inserted in chromosome II. VPaI was derived from VPaI but with some additional acquired elements in common with VPaI carried by pandemic isolates, exemplifying the mosaic nature of pathogenicity islands. Genomics comparisons and amplicon assays identified VPaI-type islands containing  tdh  inserted adjacent to the  ure  cluster in the three introduced Pacific and most other emergent lineages. that collectively cause 67% of Northeast US infections as of 2016.  IMPORTANCE  The availability of three different hemolysin genotypes in the ST631 lineage provided a unique opportunity to employ genome comparisons to further our understanding of the processes underlying pathogen evolution. The fact that two different pathogenic clades arose in parallel from the same potentially benign lineage by independent VPaI acquisition is surprising considering the historically low prevalence of community members harboring VPaI in waters along the Northeast US Coast that could serve as the source of this material. This illustrates a possible predisposition of some lineages to not only acquire foreign DNA but also to become human pathogens. Whereas the underlying cause for the expansion of  V. parahaemolyticus  lineages harboring VPaI along the US Atlantic coast and spread of this element to multiple lineages that underlies disease emergence is not known, this work underscores the need to define the environment factors that favor bacteria harboring VPaI in locations of emergent disease.
Background  Short-acting B 2 -adrenergic receptor agonists (SABAs) are the most commonly prescribed asthma medications worldwide. Response to SABAs is measured as bronchodilator drug response (BDR), which varies among racial/ethnic groups in the U.S  1, 2 . However, the genetic variation that contributes to BDR is largely undefined in African Americans with asthma 3   Objective  To identify genetic variants that may contribute to differences in BDR in African Americans with asthma.  Methods  We performed a genome-wide association study of BDR in 949 African American children with asthma, genotyped with the Axiom World Array 4 (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA) followed by imputation using 1000 Genomes phase 3 genotypes. We used linear regression models adjusting for age, sex, body mass index and genetic ancestry to test for an association between BDR and genotype at single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). To increase power and distinguish between shared vs. population-specific associations with BDR in children with asthma, we performed a meta-analysis across 949 African Americans and 1,830 Latinos (Total=2,779). Lastly, we performed genome-wide admixture mapping to identify regions whereby local African or European ancestry is associated with BDR in African Americans. Two additional populations of 416 Latinos and 1,325 African Americans were used to replicate significant associations.  Results  We identified a population-specific association with an intergenic SNP on chromosome 9q21 that was significantly associated with BDR (rs73650726, p=7.69  10 9 ). A trans-ethnic meta-analysis across African Americans and Latinos identified three additional SNPs within the intron of  PRKG1  that were significantly associated with BDR (rs7903366, rs7070958, and rs7081864, p5  10 8 ).  Conclusions  Our findings indicate that both population specific and shared genetic variation contributes to differences in BDR in minority children with asthma, and that the genetic underpinnings of BDR may differ between racial/ethnic groups.  Key messages  A GWAS for BDR in African American children with asthma identified an intergenic population specific variant at 9q21 to be associated with increased bronchodilator drug response (BDR).  A meta-analysis of GWAS across African Americans and Latinos identified shared genetic variants at 10q21 in the intron of  PRKG1  to be associated with differences in BDR.  Further genetic studies need to be performed in diverse populations to identify the full set of genetic variants that contribute to BDR.
Motivation  Short-read sequencing enables assessment of genetic and biochemical traits of individual genomic regions, such as the location of genetic variation, protein binding, and chemical modifications. Every region in a genome assembly has a property called  mappability  which measures the extent to which it can be uniquely mapped by sequence reads. In regions of lower mappability, estimates of genomic and epigenomic characteristics from sequencing assays are less reliable. At best, sequencing assays will produce misleadingly low numbers of reads in these regions. At worst, these regions have increased susceptibility to spurious mapping from reads from other regions of the genome with sequencing errors or unexpected genetic variation. Bisulfite sequencing approaches used to identify DNA methylation exacerbate these problems by introducing large numbers of reads that map to multiple regions. While many tools consider mappability during the read mapping process, subsequent analysis often loses this information. Both to correct assumptions of uniformity in downstream analysis, and to identify regions where the analysis is less reliable, it is necessary to know the mappability of both ordinary and bisulfite-converted genomes.  Results  We introduce the Umap software for identifying uniquely mappable regions of any genome. Its Bismap extension identifies mappability of the bisulfite-converted genome. With a read length of 24 bp, 18.7% of the unmodified genome and 33.5% of the bisulfite-converted genome is not uniquely mappable. This complicates interpretation of functional genomics experiments using short-read sequencing, especially in regulatory regions. For example, 81% of human CpG islands overlap with regions that are not uniquely mappable. Similarly, in some ENCODE ChIP-seq datasets, up to 50% of peaks overlap with regions that are not uniquely mappable. We also explored differentially methylated regions from a case-control study and identified regions that were not uniquely mappable. In the widely used 450K methylation array, 4,230 probes are not uniquely mappable. Genome mappability is higher with longer sequencing reads, but most publicly available ChIP-seq and reduced representation bisulfite sequencing datasets have shorter reads. Therefore, uneven and low mappability remains a concern in a majority of existing data.  Availability  A Umap and Bismap track hub for human genome assemblies GRCh37/hg19 and GRCh38/hg38, and mouse assemblies GRCm37/mm9 and GRCm38/mm10 is available at http://bismap.hoffmanlab.org for use with the UCSC and Ensembl genome browsers. We have deposited in Zenodo the current version of our software (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.800648) and the mappability data used in this project (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.800645). In addition, the software (https://bitbucket.org/hoffmanlab/umap) is freely available under the GNU General Public License, version 3 (GPLv3).  Contact  michael.hoffman@utoronto.ca
Short-term synaptic plasticity (STP) critically affects the processing of information in neuronal circuits by reversibly changing the effective strength of connections between neurons on time scales from milliseconds to a few seconds. STP is traditionally studied using intracellular recordings of postsynaptic potentials or currents evoked by presynaptic spikes. However, STP also affects the statistics of postsynaptic spikes. Here we present two model-based approaches for estimating synaptic weights and short-term plasticity from pre- and postsynaptic spike observations alone. We extend a generalized linear model (GLM) that predicts postsynaptic spiking as a function of the observed pre- and postsynaptic spikes and allow the connection strength (coupling term in the GLM) to vary as a function of time based on the history of presynaptic spikes. Our first model assumes that STP follows a Tsodyks-Markram description of vesicle depletion and recovery. In a second model, we introduce a functional description of STP where we estimate the coupling term as a biophysically unrestrained function of the presynaptic inter-spike intervals. To validate the models, we test the accuracy of STP estimation using the spiking of pre- and postsynaptic neurons with known synaptic dynamics. We first test our models using the responses of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons to simulated presynaptic input with different types of STP, and then use simulated spike trains to examine the effects of spike-frequency adaptation, stochastic vesicle release, spike sorting errors, and common input. We find that, using only spike observations, both model-based methods can accurately reconstruct the time-varying synaptic weights of presynaptic inputs for different types of STP. Our models also capture the differences in postsynaptic spike responses to presynaptic spikes following short vs long inter-spike intervals, similar to results reported for thalamocortical connections. These models may thus be useful tools for characterizing short-term plasticity from multi-electrode spike recordings in vivo.  Author Summary  Information processing in the nervous system critically depends on dynamic changes in the strength of connections between neurons. Short-term synaptic plasticity (STP), changes that occur on timescales from milliseconds to a few seconds, is thought to play a role in tasks such as speech recognition, motion detection, and working memory. Although intracellular recordings in slices of neural tissue have identified synaptic mechanisms of STP and have demonstrated its potential role in information processing, studying STP in intact animals, especially during behavior, is experimentally difficult. Unlike intracellular recordings, extracellular spiking of hundreds of neurons simultaneously can be recorded even in behaving animals. Here we developed two models that allow estimation of STP from extracellular spike recordings. We validate these models using results from in vitro experiments which simulate a realistic synaptic input from a population of presynaptic neurons with defined STP rules. Our results show that both new models can accurately recover the synaptic dynamics underlying spiking. These new methods will allow us to study STP using extracellular recordings, and therefore on a much larger scale than previously possible in behaving animals.
ilence of FMR1 causes loss of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) and dysregulated translation at synapses, resulting in the intellectual disability and autistic symptoms of Fragile X Syndrome (FXS). Synaptic dysfunction hypotheses for how intellectual disabilities like cognitive inflexibility arise in FXS, predict impaired neural coding in the absence of FMRP. We tested the prediction by comparing hippocampus place cells in wild-type and FXS-model mice. Experience-driven CA1 synaptic function and synaptic plasticity changes are excessive in Fmr1-null mice, but CA1 place fields are normal. However, Fmr1-null discharge relationships to local field potential oscillations are abnormally weak, stereotyped, and homogeneous; also discharge coordination within Fmr1-null place cell networks is weaker and less reliable than wild-type. Rather than disruption of single-cell neural codes, these findings point to invariant tuning of single-cell responses and inadequate discharge coordination within neural ensembles as a pathophysiological basis of cognitive inflexibility in FXS.
Similarly to its homologs in other bacteria,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  partitioning protein ParB facilitates segregation of newly replicated chromosomes. Lack of ParB is not lethal but results in increased frequency of anucleate cells production, longer division time, cell elongation, altered colony morphology and defective swarming and swimming motility. Unlike in other bacteria, inactivation of  parB  leads to major changes of the transcriptome, suggesting that, directly or indirectly, ParB plays a role in regulation of gene expression in this organism.  ParB overproduction affects growth rate, cell division and motility in a similar way as ParB deficiency. To identify primary ParB targets, here we analysed the impact of a slight increase in ParB level on  P. aeruginosa  transcriptome. ParB excess, which does not cause changes in growth rate and chromosome segregation, significantly alters the expression of 176 loci. Most notably, the mRNA level of genes adjacent to high affinity ParB binding sites  parS1 - 4  close to  oriC  is reduced. Conversely, in cells lacking either  parB  or functional  parS  sequences the orfs adjacent to  parS3  and  parS4  are upregulated, indicating that direct ParB- parS3/parS4  interactions repress the transcription in this region. In addition, increased ParB level brings about repression or activation of numerous genes including several transcriptional regulators involved in SOS response, virulence and adaptation. Overall, our data support the role of partitioning protein ParB as a transcriptional regulator in  Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Background  Simple mechanistic epidemic models are widely used for forecasting and parameter estimation of infectious diseases based on noisy case reporting data. Despite the widespread application of models to emerging infectious diseases, we know little about the comparative performance of standard computational-statistical frameworks in these contexts. Here we build a simple stochastic, discrete-time, discrete-state epidemic model with both process and observation error and use it to characterize the effectiveness of different flavours of Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques. We use fits to simulated data, where parameters (and future behaviour) are known to explore the limitations of different platforms and quantify parameter estimation accuracy, forecasting accuracy, and computational efficiency across combinations of modeling decisions (e.g. discrete vs. continuous latent states, levels of stochasticity) and computational platforms (JAGS, NIMBLE, Stan).  Results  Models incorporating at least one source of population-level variation (i.e., dispersion in either the transmission process or the observation process) provide reasonably good forecasts and parameter estimates, while models that incorporate only individual-level variation can lead to inaccurate (or overconfident) results. Models using continuous approximations to the transmission process showed improved computational efficiency without loss of accuracy.  Conclusion  Simple models of disease transmission and observation can be fitted reliably to simple simulations, as long as population-level variation is taken into account. Continuous approximations can improve computational efficiency using more advanced MCMC techniques.
Single cells can stochastically switch across thresholds imposed by regulatory networks. Such thresholds can act as a tipping point, drastically changing global phenotypic states. In ecology and economics, imminent transitions across such tipping points can be predicted using dynamical early warning indicators. A typical example is &quot;flickering&quot; of a fast variable, predicting a longer-lasting switch from a low to a high state or vice versa. Considering the different timescales between metabolite and protein fluctuations in bacteria, we hypothesized that metabolic early warning indicators predict imminent transitions across a network threshold caused by enzyme saturation. We used stochastic simulations to determine if flickering predicts phenotypic transitions, accounting for a variety of molecular physiological parameters, including enzyme affinity, burstiness of enzyme gene expression, homeostatic feedback, and rates of metabolic precursor influx. In most cases, we found that metabolic flickering rates are robustly peaked near the enzyme saturation threshold. The degree of fluctuation was amplified by product inhibition of the enzyme. We conclude that sensitivity to flickering in fast variables may be a possible natural or synthetic strategy to prepare physiological states for an imminent transition.
Technical variance is a major confounding factor in single-cell RNA sequencing, not least because it is not possible to replicate measurements on the same cell. We present BEARscc, a tool that uses RNA spike-in controls to simulate experiment-specific technical replicates. We demonstrate that the tool improves the unsupervised classification of cells and facilitates the biological interpretation of single-cell RNA-seq experiments.
Site-specific recombinases are potent tools to regulate gene expression. In particular, the Cre and FLP enzymes are widely used to either activate or inactivate genes in a precise spatiotemporal manner. Both recombinases work efficiently in the popular model organism  Caenorhabditis elegans  but their use in this nematode is still only sporadic. To increase the utility of the FLP system in  C. elegans  we have generated a series of single-copy transgenic strains that stably express an optimized version of FLP in specific tissues or by heat induction. We show that recombination efficiencies reach 100 percent in several cell types, such as muscles, intestine and serotonin producing neurons. Moreover, we demonstrate that most promoters drive recombination exclusively in the expected tissues. As examples of the potentials of the FLP lines we describe novel tools for induced cell ablation by expression of the PEEL-1 toxin and a versatile FLP-out cassette for generation of GFP-tagged conditional knockout alleles. Together with other recombinase-based reagents created by the  C. elegans  community this toolkit increases the possibilities for detailed analyses of specific biological processes at developmental stages inside intact animals.
Sleep plays an important role in consolidation of recent memories. However, the mechanisms of consolidation remain poorly understood. In this study, using a realistic computational model of the thalamocortical network, we demonstrated that sleep spindles (the hallmark of N2 stage sleep) and slow oscillations (the hallmark of N3 stage sleep) both facilitate spike sequence replay as necessary for consolidation. When multiple memories were trained, the local nature of spike sequence replay during spindles allowed replay of the memories independently, while during slow oscillations replay of the weak memory was competing to the strong memory replay. This led to the weak memory extinction unless when sleep spindles (N2 sleep) preceded slow oscillations (N3 sleep), as observed during natural sleep. Our study presents a mechanistic explanation for the role of sleep rhythms in memory consolidation and proposes a testable hypothesis how the natural structure of sleep stages provides an optimal environment to consolidate memories.  Significant Statement  Numerous studies suggest importance of NREM sleep rhythms  spindles and slow oscillations - in sleep related memory consolidation. However, synaptic mechanisms behind the role of these rhythms in memory and learning are still unknown. Our new study predicts that sleep replay - the neuronal substrate of memory consolidation - is organized within the sleep spindles and coordinated by the Down to Up state transitions of the slow oscillation. For multiple competing memories, slow oscillations facilitated only strongest memory replay, while sleep spindles allowed a consolidation of the multiple competing memories independently. Our study predicts how the basic structure of the natural sleep stages provides an optimal environment for consolidation of multiple memories.
gy has revolutionized our understanding of interactions between organisms. Interactions may present a social dilemma where the interests of individual actors do not align with those of the group as a whole. Viewed through a sociobiological lens, nearly all interactions can be described in terms of their costs and benefits and a number of them then resemble a social dilemma. Numerous experimental systems, from bacteria to mammals, have been proposed as models for studying such dilemmas. Here we make use of the external immune system of the red flour beetle,  Tribolium castaneum , to investigate how the experimental duration can affect whether the external secretion comprises a social dilemma or not. Some beetles (secretors) produce a costly quinone-rich external secretion that inhibits microbial growth in the surrounding environment, providing the secretors with direct personal benefits. However, since the antimicrobial secretion acts in the environment of the beetle it is potentially also advantageous to other beetles (non-secretors), who avoid the cost of producing the secretion. We test experimentally if the secretion qualifies as a public good. We find that in the short term, costly quinone secretion can be interpreted as a public good presenting a social dilemma where the presence of secretors increases the fitness of the group. In the long run, the benefit to the group of having more secretors vanishes and actually becomes detrimental to the group. Therefore, in such semi-natural environmental conditions, it turns out that qualifying a trait as social can be a matter of timing.
ible microelectrodes that can bend and flex with the natural movement of the brain reduce the inflammatory response and improve the stability of long-term neural recordings. 1-5  However, current methods to implant these highly flexible electrodes rely on temporary stiffening agents that increase the electrode size 6-10  thus aggravating neural damage during implantation, which leads to cell loss and glial activation that persists even after the stiffening agents are removed or dissolve. 11-13  A method to deliver thin, ultra-flexible electrodes deep into neural tissue without increasing the stiffness or size of the electrodes will enable minimally invasive electrical recordings from within the brain. Here we show that specially designed microfluidic devices can apply a tension force to ultra-flexible electrodes that prevents buckling without increasing the thickness or stiffness of the electrode during implantation. Additionally, these fluidic microdrives allow us to precisely actuate the electrode position with micron-scale accuracy. To demonstrate the efficacy of our fluidic microdrives, we used them to actuate highly flexible carbon nanotube fiber (CNTf) microelectrodes 11,14  for electrophysiology. We used this approach in three proof-of-concept experiments. First, we recorded compound action potentials in a soft model organism, the small cnidarian  Hydra . Second, we targeted electrodes precisely to the thalamic reticular nucleus in brain slices and recorded spontaneous and optogenetically-evoked extracellular action potentials. Finally, we inserted electrodes more than 4 mm deep into the brain of rats and detected spontaneous individual unit activity in both cortical and subcortical regions. Compared to syringe injection, fluidic microdrives do not penetrate the brain and prevent changes in intracranial pressure by diverting fluid away from the injection site during insertion and actuation. Overall, the fluidic microdrive technology provides a robust new method to implant and actuate ultra-flexible neural electrodes.
Soil surface communities dominated by mosses, lichens and cyanobacteria (biocrusts) cover most of the soil surface between vegetation patches in drylands worldwide, and are known to affect soil wetting and drying after rainfall events. While ongoing climate change is already warming and changing rainfall patterns of drylands in many regions, little is known on how these changes may affect the hydrological behaviour of biocrust-covered soils. We used eight years of continuous soil moisture and rainfall data from a climate change experiment in central Spain to explore how biocrusts modify soil water gains and losses after rainfall events under simulated changes in temperature (2.5C warming) and rainfall (33% reduction). Both rainfall amount and biocrust cover increased soil water gains after rainfall events, whereas experimental warming, rainfall intensity and initial soil moisture decreased them. Initial moisture, maximum temperature and biocrust cover, by means of enhancing potential evapotranspiration or soil darkening, increased the drying rates and enhanced the exponential behaviour of the drying events. Meanwhile, the warming treatment reduced the exponential behaviour of these events. The effects of climate change treatments on soil water gains and losses changed through time, with important differences between the first two years of the experiment and after five years since its setup. These effects were mainly driven by the important reductions in biocrust cover and diversity observed under warming. Our results highlight the importance of long term studies to understand soil moisture responses to ongoing climate change in drylands.
Somatic genomic mutations in lung adenocarcinomas (LUADs) have been extensively dissected, but whether the counterpart normal lung tissues that are exposed to ambient air or tobacco smoke as the tumor tissues do, harbor genomic variations, remains unclear. Here, the genome of normal lung tissues and paired tumors of 11 patients with LUAD were sequenced, the genome sequences of counterpart normal controls (CNCs) and tumor tissues of 513 patients were downloaded from TCGA database and analyzed. In the initial screening, genomic alterations were identified in the normal lung tissues and verified by Sanger capillary sequencing. In CNCs of TCGA datasets, a mean of 0.2721 exonic variations/Mb and 5.2885 altered genes per sample were uncovered. The C:GT:A transitions, a signature of tobacco carcinogen N-methyl-N-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, were the predominant nucleotide changes in CNCs. 16 genes had a variant rate of more than 2%, and CNC variations in  MUC5B ,  ZXDB ,  PLIN4 ,  CCDC144NL ,  CNTNAP3B , and  CCDC180  were associated with poor prognosis whereas alterations in  CHD3  and  KRTAP5-5  were associated with favorable clinical outcome of the patients. This study identified the genomic alterations in CNC samples of LUADs, and further highlighted the DNA damage effect of tobacco on lung epithelial cells.
omatic mutations show variation in density across cancer genomes. Previous studies have shown that chromatin organization and replication time domains are correlated with and thus predictive of this variation  1,2,3,4,5 . Here, we analyse 1,809 whole-genome sequences from nine cancer types  6,7,8  to show that a subset of repetitive DNA sequences called non-B motifs that predict non-canonical secondary structure formation  9,10,11,12  can independently account for variation in mutation density. However, combined with epigenetic factors and replication timing, the variance explained can be improved to 43-76%. Intriguingly, ~2-fold mutation enrichment is observed directly within non-B motifs, is focused on exposed structural components, and is dependent on physical properties that are optimal for secondary structure formation. Therefore, there is mounting evidence that secondary structures arising from non-B motifs are not simply associated with increased mutation density, they are possibly causally implicated. Our results suggest that they are determinants of mutagenesis and increase the likelihood of recurrent mutations in the genome  13,6 . This analysis calls for caution in the interpretation of recurrent mutations and highlights the importance of taking non-B motifs, that can simply be inferred from the reference sequence, into consideration in background models of mutability henceforth.
Species diversity varies greatly across the different taxonomic groups that comprise the Tree of Life (ToL). This imbalance is particularly conspicuous within angiosperms, but is largely unexplained. Seed mass is one trait that may help clarify why some lineages diversify more than others because it confers adaptation to different environments, which can subsequently influence speciation and extinction. The rate at which seed mass changes across the angiosperm phylogeny may also be linked to diversification by increasing reproductive isolation and allowing access to novel ecological niches. However, the magnitude and direction of the association between seed mass and diversification has not been assessed across the angiosperm phylogeny. Here, we show that absolute seed size and the rate of change in seed size are both associated with variation in diversification rates. Based on the largest available angiosperm phylogenetic tree, we found that smaller-seeded plants had higher rates of diversification, possibly due to improved colonisation potential. The rate of phenotypic change in seed size was also strongly positively correlated with speciation rates, providing rare, large-scale evidence that rapid morphological change is associated with species divergence. Our study now reveals that variation in morphological traits and, importantly, the rate at which they evolve can contribute to explaining the extremely uneven distribution of diversity across the ToL.
Species identification using DNA sequences, known as DNA barcoding has been widely used in many applied fields. Current barcoding methods are usually based on a single mitochondrial locus, such as cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI). This type of barcoding is not always effective when applied to species separated by short divergence times or that contain introgressed genes from closely related species. Herein we introduce a more effective multi-locus barcoding framework that is based on gene capture and next-generation sequencing and provide both empirical and simulation tests of its efficacy. We examine genetic distinctness in two pairs of fishes that are sister-species:  Siniperca chuatsi  vs.  S. kneri  and  Sicydium altum  vs.  S. adelum , where the COI barcoding approach failed species identification in both cases. Results revealed that distinctness between  S. chuatsi  and  S. kneri  increased as more independent loci were added. By contrast  S. altum  and  S. adelum  could not be distinguished even with all loci. Analyses of population structure and gene flow suggested that the two species of  Siniperca  diverged from each other a long time ago but have unidirectional gene flow, whereas the two species of  Sicydium  are not separated from each other and have high bidirectional gene flow. Simulations demonstrate that under limited gene flow (&amp;lt; 0.00001 per gene per generation) and enough separation time (&amp;gt; 100000 generation), we can correctly identify species using more than 90 loci. Finally, we selected 500 independent nuclear markers for ray-finned fishes and designed a three-step pipeline for multilocus DNA barcoding.
s a membrane skeletal protein best known for its structural role in maintaining cell shape and protecting cells from mechanical damage 1-3 . Here, we report that spectrin dynamically accumulates and dissolves at the fusogenic synapse, where an attacking fusion partner mechanically invades its receiving partner with actin-propelled protrusions to promote cell-cell fusion 4-7 . Using genetics, cell biology, biophysics and mathematical modeling, we demonstrate that unlike myosin II that responds to dilation deformation, spectrin exhibits a mechanosensitive accumulation in response to shear deformation, which is highly elevated at the fusogenic synapse. The accumulated spectrin forms an uneven network, which functions as a sieve to constrict the invasive fingerlike protrusions, thus putting the fusogenic synapse under high mechanical tension to promote cell membrane fusion. Taken together, our study has revealed a previously unrecognized function of spectrin as a dynamic mechanoresponsive protein that shapes the architecture of intercellular invasion. These findings have general implications for understanding spectrin function in other dynamic cellular processes beyond cell-cell fusion.
The largest Yellow Fever (YF) outbreak in a decade in Latin America is underway in the Southeast of Brazil. In this article we provide a quantitative assessment of the risk of travel-related international spread of YF. We argue that mitigating the risk of imported YF cases seeding local transmission requires heightened surveillance in the southern United States, Latin America (especially Argentina, Chile and Uruguay) and Europe (especially Portugal, Spain, Italy and Germany).
Studies based on a paradigm of free or natural viewing have revealed characteristics that allow us to know how the brain processes stimuli within a natural environment. This method has been little used to study brain function. With a connectivity approach, we examine the processing of emotions using an exploratory method to analyze functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. This research describes our approach to modeling stress paradigms suitable for neuroimaging environments. We showed a short film (4.54 minutes) with high negative emotional valence and high arousal content to 24 healthy male subjects (36.42 years old; SD=12.14) during fMRI. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to identify networks based on spatial statistical independence. Through this analysis we identified the sensorimotor system and its influence on the dorsal attention and default-mode networks, which in turn have reciprocal activity and modulate networks described as emotional.
Mechanisms that determine drug sensitivity of distinct cancer types is poorly understood for most cytotoxic chemotherapy. In this study, we elucidated a new resistance mechanism to DNA damaging chemotherapeutic through modulation of p53 dynamics. While both sensitive and resistant cancer cell lines activated similar p53 oscillation followed by cell-cycle arrest in response to low dose of DNA damaging drug, they switched in a bimodal manner to monotonic or single pulse dynamics at high drug dose. Cell lines with monotonically increasing p53 underwent rapid and extensive drug-induced apoptosis, while those exhibiting a single p53 pulse mostly survived. By combining single cell imaging with computational modeling, we characterized a regulatory module involving ATM, p53, Mdm2 and Wip1, which generates bimodal p53 dynamics through coupled feed-forward and feedback, and we found that basal expression of ATM determined the differential modular output between drug sensitive and resistant lines. Moreover, we showed combinatorial inhibition of Mdm2 and Wip1 was an effective strategy to alter p53 dynamics in resistant cancer cells and sensitize their apoptotic response. Our results point to p53 pulsing as a potentially druggable mechanism that mediates resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapy.
muscles (SFM) are extremely fast synchronous muscles capable of contraction rates up to 250 Hz, enabling precise motor execution at the millisecond time scale. To allow such speed, the archetypal SFM, found in the toadfish swimbladder, has hallmark structural and kinetic adaptations at each step of the conserved excitation-contraction coupling (ECC) pathway. More recently SFM phenotypes have been discovered in most major vertebrate lineages, but it remains unknown whether all SFM share ECC adaptations for speed, and if SFM arose once, or from independent evolutionary events. Here we use genomic analysis to identify the myosin heavy chain genes expressed in bat and songbird SFM to achieve rapid actomyosin crossbridge kinetics and demonstrate that these are evolutionarily and ontologically distinct. Furthermore, by quantifying cellular morphometry and calcium signal transduction combined with force measurements we show that all known SFM share multiple functional adaptations that minimize ECC transduction times. Our results suggest that SFM evolved independently in sound producing organs in ray-finned fish, birds, and mammals, and that SFM phenotypes operate at a maximum operational speed set by fundamental constraints in synchronous muscle. Consequentially, these constraints set a fundamental limit to the maximum speed of fine motor control.
Super-resolution images reconstructed from single-molecule localizations can reveal cellular structures close to the macromolecular scale and are now being used routinely in many biomedical research applications. However, because of their coordinate-based representation, a widely applicable and unified analysis platform that can extract a quantitative description and biophysical parameters from these images is yet to be established. Here, we propose a conceptual framework for correlation analysis of coordinate-based super-resolution images using distance histograms. We demonstrate the application of this concept in multiple scenarios including image alignment, tracking of diffusing molecules, as well as for quantification of colocalization.  Significance statement  Correlation analysis is one of the most widely used image processing method. In the quantitative analysis of localization-based super-resolution images, there still lacks a generalized coordinate-based correlation analysis framework to take fully advantage of the super-resolution information. We show a coordinate-based correlation analysis framework for localization-based super-resolution microscopy. This framework is highly general and flexible in that it can be easily extended to model the effect of localization uncertainty, to the time domain and other distance definitions, enabling it to be adapted for a wide range of applications. Our work will greatly benefit the quantitative interpretation of super-resolution images and thus the biological application of super-resolution microscopy.
Supported by recent computational studies, sparse coding and dimensionality reduction are emerging as a ubiquitous coding strategy across brain regions and modalities, allowing neurons to achieve nonnegative sparse coding (NSC) by efficiently encoding high-dimensional stimulus spaces using a sparse and parts-based population code. Reducing the dimensionality of complex, multimodal sensory streams is critically important for metabolically constrained brain areas to represent the world. In this article, we provide an overview of NSC, summarize evidence for its role in neural computation in disparate regions of the brain, ranging from visual processing to spatial navigation, and speculate that specific forms of synaptic plasticity and homeostatic modulation may underlie its implementation. We suggest that NSC may be an organizing principle in the nervous system.
Active zone proteins cluster synaptic vesicles at presynaptic terminals and coordinate their release. In forward genetic screens we isolated a novel  C. elegans  active zone gene,  clarinet (cla-1). cla-1  mutants exhibit defects in synaptic vesicle clustering, reduced spontaneous neurotransmitter release, increased synaptic depression and reduced synapse number. Ultrastructurally,  cla-1  mutants have fewer synaptic vesicles adjacent to the dense projection and an increased number of docked vesicles.  Cla-1  encodes 3 isoforms containing common C-terminal PDZ and C2 domains with homology to vertebrate active zone proteins Piccolo and RIM. The short isoform localizes exclusively to the active zone while a longer ~9000 amino acid isoform colocalizes with synaptic vesicles. Specific loss of CLA-1L results in synaptic vesicle clustering defects and increased synaptic depression, but not in reduced synapse number or mini frequency. Together our data indicate that specific isoforms  of clarinet  serve distinct functions, regulating synapse development, synaptic vesicle clustering and release.
Systemic RNA interference (RNAi) in  C. elegans  is dependent on  sid-1  (Winston et al.  2002),  sid-3  (Jose et al.  2012) and  sid-5  (Hinas et al.  2012). After injection, expression, or ingestion, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is transported between cells throughout the animal to enable RNAi in most tissues, including the germline and progeny. Here, we characterize the role of the Sid genes in transport of dsRNA to progeny. We previously reported that dsRNA injected directly in the germline unexpectedly requires  sid-1  activity in the progeny to initiate RNAi (Winston et al.  2002). We now show that germline injected dsRNA can travel by three independent pathways to silence gene expression in embryos. First, germline injected dsRNA is delivered, presumably by bulk flow, into oocytes and embryos. This means of delivery, which does not require  sid-1,  is limited by the amount and location of injected dsRNA. Second, maternal  sid-1  transports extracellular dsRNA into the germline where it can silence maternal deposited mRNAs and segregate to embryos to silence embryonically expressed mRNAs. Third, extracellular dsRNA is also endocytosed into oocytes by the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor superfamily homolog RME-2. The endocytosed dsRNA then requires  sid-1  and  sid-5  in embryos to silence embryonically expressed genes. Extracellular fluorescent dsRNA, once endocytosed into oocytes, does not co-localize with VIT2::GFP and it does not require  sid-1  activity to segregate from the late endocytosis marker GFP::RAB-7 in early embryos. In conclusion, we identify genes and pathways that function redundantly for intergenerational RNA transfer that may represent mechanisms for transgenerational epigenetic inheritance.
Systems neuroscience is in a head-long rush to record from as many neurons at the same time as possible. As the brain computes and codes using neuron populations, it is hoped these data will uncover the fundamentals of neural computation. But with hundreds, thousands, or more simultaneously recorded neurons comes the inescapable problems of visualising, describing, and quantifying their interactions. Here I argue that network science provides a set of scalable, analytical tools that already solve these problems. By treating neurons as nodes and their interactions as links, a single network can visualise and describe an arbitrarily large recording. I show that with this description we can quantify the effects of manipulating a neural circuit, track changes in population dynamics over time, and quantitatively define theoretical concepts of neural populations such as cell assemblies. Using network science as a core part of analysing population recordings will thus provide both qualitative and quantitative advances to our understanding of neural computation.
T cell signaling initiates upon binding of peptide-major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) on an antigen-presenting cell (APC) to the T cell receptor (TCR) on a T cell. TCR phosphorylation in response to pMHC binding is accompanied by segregation of the transmembrane phosphatase CD45 away from TCR-pMHC complexes. The kinetic segregation hypothesis proposes that CD45 exclusion shifts the local kinase-phosphatase balance to favor TCR phosphorylation. Spatial partitioning may arise from the size difference between the large CD45 extracellular domain and the smaller TCR-pMHC complex, although parsing potential contributions of extracellular protein size, actin activity, and lipid domains is difficult in living cells. Here, we reconstitute segregation of CD45 from bound receptor-ligand pairs using purified proteins on model membranes. Using a model receptor-ligand pair (FRB-FKBP), we first test physical and computational predictions for protein organization at membrane interfaces. We then show that the TCR-pMHC interaction causes partial exclusion of CD45. Comparing two developmentally-regulated isoforms of CD45, the larger R ABC  variant is excluded more rapidly and efficiently (~50%) than the smaller R 0  isoform (~20%), suggesting that CD45 isotypes could regulate signaling thresholds in different T cell subtypes. Similar to the sensitivity of T cell signaling, TCR-pMHC interactions with Kds of 15 M were needed to exclude CD45. We further show that the co-receptor PD-1 with its ligand PD-L1, immunotherapy targets that inhibit T cell signaling, also exclude CD45. These results demonstrate that the binding energies of physiological receptor-ligand pairs on the T cell are sufficient to create spatial organization at membrane-membrane interfaces.  SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT  The interface between a T cell and an antigen-presenting cell (APC) results in the formation of biochemically distinct plasma membrane domains that initiate signaling cascades. Here, using biochemical reconstitution and microscopy, we show that the binding energies of the TCRpMHC and PD-1-PD-L1 complexes are sufficient to create spatial organization at a model membrane-membrane interface. We show that spatial organization depends upon receptor-ligand binding affinity and the relative sizes of the extracellular domains. These biophysical parameters may be used to fine-tune signaling cascades in T cells.
t-Darpp is a protein encoded by the PPP1R1B gene and is expressed in breast, colon, esophageal, gastric, and prostate cancers, as well as in normal adult brain striatal cells. Overexpression of t-Darpp in cultured cells leads to increased protein kinase A activity and increased phosphorylation of AKT (protein kinase B). In HER2+ breast cancer cells t-Darpp confers resistance to the chemotherapeutic agent trastuzumab. To shed light on t-Darpp function, we studied its secondary structure, oligomerization status, metal-binding properties, and phosphorylation by cyclin dependent kinases 1 and 5. t-Darpp exhibits 12% alpha helix, 29% beta strand, 24% beta turn and 35% random coil structures. t-Darpp binds to calcium, but not to other metals commonly found in biological systems. The T39 site, critical for t-Darpp activation of the AKT signaling pathway, is a substrate for phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5). Gel filtration chromatography, sedimentation equilibrium analysis, blue native gel electrophoresis, and glutaraldehyde-mediated crosslinking experiments demonstrate that the majority of t-Darpp exists as a monomer, but forms low levels (&amp;lt; 3%) of hetero-oligomers with its longer isoform Darpp-32. t-Darpp has a large Stokes radius of 4.4 nm relative to its mass of 19 kDa, indicating that it has an elongated structure.
Testing for the existence of variance components in linear mixed models is a fundamental task in many applicative fields. In statistical genetics, the score test has recently become instrumental in the task of testing an association between a set of genetic markers and a phenotype. With few markers, this amounts to set-based variance component tests, which attempt to increase power in association studies by aggregating weak individual effects. When the entire genome is considered, it allows testing for the heritability of a phenotype, defined as the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by genetics. In the popular score-based Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT) method, the assumed distribution of the score test statistic is uncalibrated in small samples, with a correction being computationally expensive. This may cause severe inflation or deflation of p-values, even when the null hypothesis is true. Here, we characterize the conditions under which this discrepancy holds, and show it may occur also in large real datasets, such as a dataset from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2 ( n =13,950) study, and in particular when the individuals in the sample are unrelated. In these cases the SKAT approximation tends to be highly over-conservative and therefore underpowered. To address this limitation, we suggest an efficient method to calculate exact p-values for the score test in the case of a single variance component and a continuous response vector, which can speed up the analysis by orders of magnitude. Our results enable fast and accurate application of the score test in heritability and in set-based association tests. Our method is available in http://github.com/cozygene/RL-SKAT.
Introduction  The 2015-2017 Zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic in the Americas has driven efforts to strengthen surveillance systems and to develop interventions, testing, and travel recommendations. In the continental U.S. and Hawaii, where limited transmission has been observed, detecting local transmission is a key public health objective. We assessed the effectiveness of three general surveillance strategies for this situation: testing all pregnant women twice during pregnancy, testing blood donations, and testing symptomatic people who seek medical care in an emergency department (ED).  Methods  We developed a simulation model for each surveillance strategy and simulated different transmission scenarios with varying population sizes and infection rates. We then calculated the probability of detecting transmission, the number of tests needed, and the number of false positive test results.  Results  The probability of detecting ZIKV transmission was highest for testing ED patients with Zika symptoms, followed by pregnant women and blood donors, in that order. The magnitude of the difference in probability of detection between strategies depended on the incidence of infection. Testing ED patients required fewer tests and resulted in fewer false positives than surveillance among pregnant women. The optimal strategy identified was to test ED patients with at least two Zika virus disease symptoms. This case definition resulted in a high probability of detection with relatively few tests and false positives.  Discussion  In the continental U.S. and Hawaii, where local ZIKV transmission is rare, optimizing the probability of detecting infections while minimizing resource usage is particularly important. Local surveillance strategies will be influenced by existing public health system infrastructure, but should also consider the effectiveness of different approaches. This analysis demonstrated differences across strategies and indicated that testing symptomatic ED patients is generally a more efficient strategy for detecting transmission than routine testing of pregnant women or blood donors.
Background  The 50-year old  Aedes albopictus  C6/36 cell line is a resource for the detection, amplification, and analysis of mosquito-borne viruses including Zika, dengue, and chikungunya. The cell line is derived from an unknown number of larvae from an unspecified strain of  Aedes albopictus  mosquitoes. Toward improved utility of the cell line for research in virus transmission, we present an annotated assembly of the C6/36 genome.  Results  The C6/36 genome assembly has the largest contig N50 (3.3 Mbp) of any mosquito assembly, presents the sequences of both haplotypes for most of the diploid genome, reveals independent null mutations in both alleles of the Dicer locus, and indicates a male-specific genome. Gene annotation was computed with publicly available mosquito transcript sequences. Gene expression data from cell line RNA sequence identified enrichment of growth-related pathways and conspicuous deficiency in aquaporins and inward rectifier K +  channels. As a test of utility, RNA sequence data from Zika-infected cells was mapped to the C6/36 genome and transcriptome assemblies. Host subtraction reduced the data set by 89%, enabling faster characterization of non-host reads.  Conclusions  The C6/36 genome sequence and annotation should enable additional uses of the cell line to study arbovirus vector interactions and interventions aimed at restricting the spread of human disease.
The ability to adapt behavior to environmental fluctuations is critical for survival of organisms ranging from invertebrates to mammals.  Caenorhabditis elegans  can learn to avoid sodium chloride when it is paired with starvation. This behavior is likely advantageous to avoid areas without food. While some genes have been implicated in this salt aversive learning behavior, critical genetic components, and the neural circuit in which they act, remain elusive. Here, we show that the sole worm ortholog of mammalian CaMKI/IV, CMK-1, is essential for salt aversive learning behavior in  C. elegans . We find that CMK-1 acts in the primary salt-sensing ASE neurons to regulate this behavior. By characterizing the intracellular calcium dynamics in ASE neurons using microfluidics, we find that loss of  cmk-1  leads to an altered pattern of sensory-evoked calcium responses that may underlie salt aversive learning. Our study implicates the conserved CaMKI/CMK-1 as an essential cell-autonomous regulator for behavioral plasticity to environmental salt in  C. elegans .  Significance Statement  Like other animals, the nematode  Caenorhabditis elegans  depends on salt for survival and navigates toward high concentrations of this essential mineral. Because salt generates osmotic stress at high concentrations, it also threatens the survival of small terrestrial animals like  C. elegans . A growing body of evidence indicates that  C. elegans  balances these factors through a process called salt aversive learning. We show that this behavior depends on expression of a calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase, CMK-1, in the ASE salt sensing neurons and that salt-induced calcium signals in the ASE neurons are less sensitive to salt conditioning in animals lacking CMK-1 function. Our study identifies CMK-1 and sensory neurons as key factors in this form of behavioral plasticity.
The accumulation of somatic mutations in a genome is the result of the activity of one or more mutagenic processes, each of which leaves its own imprint. The study of these DNA fingerprints, termed mutational signatures, holds important potential for furthering our understanding of the causes and evolution of cancer, and can provide insights of relevance for cancer prevention and treatment. In this review, we focus our attention on the mathematical models and computational techniques that have driven recent advances in the field.
  WDR5 has an H3K4 independent role in the formation of multiciliated cells.  WDR5 controls apical cell expansion, basal body patterning, and ciliogenesis in multiciliated cells.  WDR5 localizes near the ciliary base where it connects basal bodies to F-actin.  WDR5 stabilizes the apical actin network in multiciliated cells.  SUMMARY  The actin cytoskeleton is critical to shape cells and pattern intracellular organelles to drive tissue morphogenesis. In multiciliated cells (MCCs), apical actin forms a lattice that drives expansion of the cell surface necessary to host hundreds of cilia. The actin lattice also uniformly distributes basal bodies across this surface. This apical actin network is dynamically remodeled, but the molecules that regulate its architecture remain poorly understood. We identify the chromatin modifier, WDR5, as a regulator of apical F-actin in multiciliated cells. Unexpectedly, WDR5 functions independently of chromatin modification in MCCs. Instead, we discover a scaffolding role for WDR5 between the basal body and F-actin. Specifically, WDR5 binds to basal bodies and migrates apically, where F-actin organizes around WDR5. Using a monomer trap for G-actin, we show that WDR5 stabilizes F-actin to maintain apical lattice architecture. In summary, we identify a novel, non-chromatin role for WDR5 in stabilizing F-actin in multiciliated cells.  IN BRIEF  Kulkarni et al discover a chromatin independent function for WDR5 in multiciliated cell formation. WDR5 localizes to the base of cilia and functions as a scaffold between the basal bodies and the apical actin lattice. There, WDR5 stabilizes the actin lattice that allows multiciliated cells to expand their apical surface, pattern basal bodies, and generate hundreds of cilia.
The aim of this study was to generate a reference set of  Salmonella enterica  genomes isolated from wildlife from the United States and to determine the antimicrobial resistance and virulence gene profile of the isolates from the genome sequence data. We sequenced the whole genomes of 103  Salmonella  isolates sampled between 1988 and 2003 from wildlife and exotic pet cases that were submitted to the Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Stillwater, Oklahoma. Among 103 isolates, 50.48% were from wild birds, 0.9% was from fish, 24.27% each were from reptiles and mammals. 50.48% isolates showed resistance to at least one antibiotic. Resistance against the aminoglycoside streptomycin was most common while 9 isolates were found to be multi-drug resistant having resistance against more than three antibiotics. Determination of virulence gene profile revealed that the genes belonging to csg operons, the fim genes that encode for type 1 fimbriae and the genes belonging to type III secretion system were predominant among the isolates. The universal presence of fimbrial genes and the genes encoded by pathogenicity islands 1-2 among the isolates we report here indicates that these isolates could potentially cause disease in humans. Therefore, the genomes we report here could be a valuable reference point for future traceback investigations when wildlife is considered to be the potential source of human Salmonellosis.
The antisaccade task is a classic paradigm used to study the voluntary control of eye movements. It requires participants to suppress a reactive eye movement to a visual target and to concurrently initiate a saccade in the opposite direction. Although several models have been proposed to explain error rates and reaction times in this task, no formal model comparison has yet been performed. Here, we describe a Bayesian modeling approach to the antisaccade task that allows us to formally compare different models on the basis of their evidence. First, we provide a formal likelihood function of actions (pro- and antisaccades) and reaction times based on previously published models. Second, we introduce the  Stochastic Early Reaction, Inhibition, and late Action model  (SERIA), a novel model postulating two different mechanisms that interact in the antisaccade task: an early GO/NO-GO race decision process and a late GO/GO decision process. Third, we apply these models to a data set from an experiment with three mixed blocks of pro- and antisaccade trials. Bayesian model comparison demonstrates that the SERIA model explains the data better than competing models that do not incorporate a late decision process. Moreover, we show that the race decision processes postulated by the SERIA model are, to a large extent, insensitive to the cue presented on a single trial. Finally, we use parameter estimates to demonstrate that changes in reaction time and error rate due to the probability of a trial type (prosaccade or antisaccade) are best explained by faster or slower inhibition and the probability of generating late voluntary prosaccades.  Author summary  One widely replicated finding in schizophrenia research is that patients tend to make more errors in the antisaccade task, a psychometric paradigm in which participants are required to look in the opposite direction of a visual cue. This deficit has been suggested to be an endophenotype of schizophrenia, as first order relatives of patients tend to show similar but milder deficits. Currently, most models applied to experimental findings in this task are limited to fit average reaction times and error rates. Here, we propose a novel statistical model that fits experimental data from the antisaccade task, beyond summary statistics. The model is inspired by the hypothesis that antisaccades are the result of several competing decision processes that interact nonlinearly with each other. In applying this model to a relatively large experimental data set, we show that mean reaction times and error rates do not fully reflect the complexity of the processes that are likely to underlie experimental findings. In the future, our model could help to understand the nature of the deficits observed in schizophrenia by providing a statistical tool to study their biological underpinnings.
The application of RNA interference (RNAi) to mammalian cells has provided the means to perform phenotypic screens to determine the functions of genes. Although RNAi has revolutionized loss of function genetic experiments, it has been difficult to systematically assess the prevalence and consequences of off-target effects. The Connectivity Map (CMAP) represents an unprecedented resource to study the gene expression consequences of expressing short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs). Analysis of signatures for over 13,000 shRNAs applied in 9 cell lines revealed that miRNA-like off-target effects of RNAi are far stronger and more pervasive than generally appreciated. We show that mitigating off-target effects is feasible in these datasets via computational methodologies to produce a Consensus Gene Signature (CGS). In addition, we compared RNAi technology to clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)-based knockout by analysis of 373 sgRNAs in 6 cells lines, and show that the on-target efficacies are comparable, but CRISPR technology is far less susceptible to systematic off-target effects. These results will help guide the proper use and analysis of loss-of-function reagents for the determination of gene function.
The BAM 1  and CRAM 2  formats provide a supplementary linear index that facilitates rapid access to sequence alignments in arbitrary genomic regions. Comparing consecutive entries in a BAM or CRAM index allows one to infer the number of alignment records per genomic region for use as an effective proxy of sequence depth in each genomic region. Based on these properties, we have developed  indexcov , an efficient estimator of whole-genome sequencing coverage to rapidly identify samples with aberrant coverage profiles, reveal large scale chromosomal anomalies, recognize potential batch effects, and infer the sex of a sample.  Indexcov  is available at: https://github.com/brentp/goleft under the MIT license.
Cancer gene therapy is a great promising tool for cancer therapeutics due to the specific targeting based on the cancerous gene expression background. Binary systems based on site-specific recombination are one of the most effective potential approaches for cancer gene therapy. In these systems, a cancer specific promoter expresses a site-specific recombinase/integrase that in turn controls the expression of a toxin gene. In the current study, we have developed a new HK022 bacteriophage Integrase (Int) based binary system activating a Diphtheria toxin (DTA) gene expression specifically in cancer cells. We have demonstrated the efficiency, and the high specificity of the system  in vitro  in cell cultures and  in vivo  in a lung cancer mouse model. Strikingly, different apoptotic and anti-apoptotic factors demonstrated a remarkable efficacy killing capability of the Int-based binary system compared to the conventional  hTERT-DTA  mono system in the LLC-Kat lung cancer mice model; we observed that the active  hTERT  promoter down regulation by the transcription factors Mad-1 is the cornerstone of this phenomenon. The new Int-based binary system offers advantages over already known counterparts and may therefore be developed into a safer and efficient cancer treatment technology.
The birth of genes that encode new protein sequences is a major source of evolutionary innovation. However, we still understand relatively little about how these genes come into being and which functions they are selected for. To address these questions we have obtained a large collection of mammalian-specific gene families that lack homologues in other eukaryotic groups. We have combined gene annotations and  de novo  transcript assemblies from 30 different mamalian species, obtaining about 6,000 gene families. In general, the proteins in mammalian-specific gene families tend to be short and depleted in aromatic and negatively charged residues. Proteins which arose early in mammalian evolution include milk and skin polypeptides, immune response components, and proteins involved in reproduction. In contrast, the functions of proteins which have a more recent origin remain largely unknown, despite the fact that these proteins also have extensive proteomics support. We identify several previously described cases of genes originated  de novo  from non-coding genomic regions, supporting the idea that this mechanism frequently underlies the evolution of new protein-coding genes in mammals. Finally, we show that most young mammalian genes are preferentially expressed in testis, suggesting that sexual selection plays an important role in the emergence of new functional genes.
p of the supercontinent Pangaea over the past ~ 180 million years has left its imprint on the global distribution of species and resulted in vicariance-driven allopatric speciation. Here we test the idea that the molecular clock dates for the divergences of species whose geographic ranges were divided, should agree with the palaeomagnetic dates for the continental separations. Our analysis of recently available phylogenetic divergence dates of 42 pairs of vertebrate taxa, selected for their reduced ability to have undergone dispersal-driven speciation, demonstrates that the divergence dates in phylogenetic trees of continent-bound terrestrial and freshwater vertebrates are consistent with the palaeomagnetic dates of continental separation.
The cancer immunoediting hypothesis postulates a dual role of the immune system: protecting the host by eliminating tumor cells, and shaping the tumor by editing the genome. However, to what extent immunoediting is shaping the cancer genome is still a matter of debate. Moreover, the impact of cancer immunotherapy with checkpoint blockers on modulating immunoediting remains largely unexplored. Here we elucidated the impact of evolutionary and immune-related forces on editing the tumor in a mouse model of colorectal cancer (CRC). We first show that MC38 cell line is a valid model for hypermutated and microsatellite-unstable (MSI) CRC. Analyses of longitudinal samples of wild type and immunodeficient RAG1 knockout mice transplanted with MC38 cells revealed that upregulation of checkpoint molecules and infiltration of Tregs are the major tumor escape mechanisms. Strikingly, the impact of neutral evolution on sculpting the tumor outweighed immunoediting. Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway potentiated immunoediting and rendered tumors more homogeneous in the MC38 model. The immunoediting effects were less pronounced in a nonhypermutated/MSI- model CT26. Our study demonstrates that neutral evolution is the major force that sculpts the tumor, and that checkpoint blockade effectively enforces T cell dependent immunoselective pressure in a hypermutated/MSI model of CRC.
The combined actions of proteins in networks underlie all fundamental cellular functions. Deeper insights into the dynamics of network composition across species and their functional consequences are crucial to fully understand protein network evolution. Large-scale comparative studies with high phylogenetic resolution are now feasible through the recent rise in available genomic datasets of both model  and  non-model species. Here we focus on the polarity network, which is universally essential for cell proliferation and studied in great detail in the model organism,  Saccharomyces cerevisiae . We examine 34 proteins, directly related to cell polarization, across 200 fungal strains/species to determine evolution of the composition of the network and patterns of conservation and diversification.  We observe strong protein conservation for a group of 16 core proteins: 95% of all strains/species possess at least 75% of these proteins, albeit in varying compositions. We find high levels of variation in prevalence and sequence identity in the remaining 18 proteins, resulting in distinct lineage-specific compositions of the network in the majority of strains/species. We test if the observed diversification in network composition correlates with potential underlying factors and find that lineage, lifestyle, and genetic distance co-vary with network size. Yeast, filamentous and basal unicellular fungi form distinctive groups based on these analyses, with substantial differences to their polarization network. Our study shows that evolution of the fungal polarization network is highly dynamic, even between closely related species, and that functional conservation is achieved by varying structural conservation of the fungal polarization proteins.  Data Deposition  Sequence alignments used are available upon request.
The coordinated activity of muscles is produced in part by spinal rhythmogenic neural circuits, termed central pattern generators (CPGs). A classical CPG model is a system of coupled oscillators that transform locomotor drive into coordinated and gait-specific patterns of muscle recruitment. The network properties of this conceptual model can be simulated by a system of ordinary differential equations with a physiologically-inspired coupling locus of interactions capturing the timing relationship for bilateral coordination of limbs in locomotion. While most similar models are solved numerically, it is intriguing to have a full analytical description of this plausible CPG architecture to illuminate the functionality within this structure and to expand it to include steering control. Here, we provided a closed-form analytical solution contrasted against the previous numerical method. The computational load of the analytical solution was decreased by order of magnitude when compared to the numerical approach (relative errors, &amp;lt;0.01%). The analytical solution tested and supported the previous finding that the input to the model can be expressed in units of the desired limb locomotor speed. Furthermore, we performed parametric sensitivity analysis in the context of controlling steering and documented two possible mechanisms associated with either an external drive or intrinsic CPG parameters. The results identify specific propriospinal pathways that may be associated with adaptations within the CPG structure. The model offered several network configurations that may generate the same behavioral outcomes.  New &amp;amp; Noteworthy  Using a simple process of leaky integration, we developed an analytical solution to a robust model of spinal pattern generation. We analyzed the ability of this neural element to exert locomotor control of the signal associated with limb speeds and tested the ability of this simple structure to embed steering control using the velocity signal in the models inputs or within the internal connectivity of its elements.
The  Cucurbita  genus (squashes, pumpkins, gourds) includes important domesticated species such as  C. pepo ,  C. maxima  and  C. moschata . In this study, we present a high-quality draft of the zucchini ( C. pepo ) genome. The assembly has a size of 263 Mb, a scaffold N50 of 1.8 Mb, 34,240 gene models, includes 92% of the conserved BUSCO core gene set, and it is estimated to cover 93.0% of the genome. The genome is organized in 20 pseudomolecules, that represent 81.4% of the assembly, and it is integrated with a genetic map of 7,718 SNPs. Despite its small genome size three independent evidences support that the  C. pepo  genome is the result of a Whole Genome Duplication: the topology of the gene family phylogenies, the karyotype organization, and the distribution of 4DTv distances. Additionally, 40 transcriptomes of 12 species of the genus were assembled and analyzed together with all the other published genomes of the Cucurbitaceae family. The duplication was detected in all the  Cucurbita  species analyzed, including  C. maxima  and  C. moschata , but not in the more distant cucurbits belonging to the  Cucumis  and  Citrullus  genera, and it is likely to have happened 30  4 Mya in the ancestral species that gave rise to the genus.
Motivation  The de Bruijn graph is a simple and efficient data structure that is used in many areas of sequence analysis including genome assembly, read error correction and variant calling. The data structure has a single parameter  k , is straightforward to implement and is tractable for large genomes with high sequencing depth. It also enables representation of multiple samples simultaneously to facilitate comparison. However, unlike the string graph, a de Bruijn graph does not retain long range information that is inherent in the read data. For this reason, applications that rely on de Bruijn graphs can produce sub-optimal results given their input.  Results  We present a novel assembly graph data structure: the  Linked de Bruijn Graph (LdBG) . Constructed by adding annotations on top of a de Bruijn graph, it stores long range connectivity information through the graph. We show that with error-free data it is possible to losslessly store and recover sequence from a Linked de Bruijn graph. With assembly simulations we demonstrate that the LdBG data structure outperforms both the de Bruijn graph and the String Graph Assembler (SGA). Finally we apply the LdBG to  Klebsiella pneumoniae  short read data to make large (12 kbp) variant calls, which we validate using PacBio sequencing data, and to characterise the genomic context of drug-resistance genes.  Availability  Linked de Bruijn Graphs and associated algorithms are implemented as part of McCortex, available under the MIT license at https://github.com/mcvean/mccortex.  Contact  turner.isaac@gmail.com.
he deadly malaria parasite,  Plasmodium falciparum , contains a non-photosynthetic plastid known as the apicoplast, that functions to produce essential metabolites. Little is known about its biology or regulation, but drugs that target the apicoplast are clinically effective. Using phylogenetic analysis, we identified a putative complex of clp (caseinolytic protease) genes. We genetically targeted members of this complex and generated conditional mutants of the PfClpC chaperone and PfClpP protease and found that they co-localize in the apicoplast. Conditional inhibition of the PfClpC chaperone resulted in growth arrest and apicoplast loss, and was rescued by addition of the essential apicoplast-derived metabolite, IPP. Using a double conditional-mutant parasite line, we discovered that the chaperone activity is required to stabilize the active protease, revealing functional interactions. These data demonstrate the essential function of PfClpC in maintaining apicoplast integrity and its role in regulating the proteolytic activity of the Clp complex.
The default mode network supports a variety of mental operations such as semantic processing, episodic memory retrieval, mental time travel and mind-wandering, yet the commonalities between these functions remains unclear. One possibility is that this system supports cognition that is independent of the immediate environment; alternatively or additionally, it might support higher-order conceptual representations that draw together multiple features. We tested these accounts using a novel paradigm that separately manipulated the availability of perceptual information to guide decision-making and the representational complexity of this information. Using task based imaging we established regions that respond when cognition combines both stimulus independence with multi-modal information. These included left and right angular gyri and the left middle temporal gyrus. Although these sites were within the default mode network, they showed a stronger response to demanding memory judgements than to an easier perceptual task, contrary to the view that they support automatic aspects of cognition. In a subsequent analysis, we showed that these regions were located at the extreme end of a macroscale gradient, which describes gradual transitions from sensorimotor to transmodal cortex. This shift in the focus of neural activity towards transmodal, default mode, regions might reflect a process of isolation from specific sensory inputs that enables conceptually rich cognitive states to be generated in the absence of input.  Highlights  Brain regions supporting meaning overlap with stimulus independence.  Bilateral angular gyri and left MTG respond strongly to both features of cognition.  These patterns reflect a shift in activity towards regions of transmodal cortex.  Complex memory representations may emerge in cortical areas distant from input.
How a neuronal cell type is defined and how this relates to its transcriptome are still open questions. The  Drosophila  olfactory projection neurons (PNs) are among the best-characterized neuronal types: Different PN classes target dendrites to distinct olfactory glomeruli and PNs of the same class exhibit indistinguishable anatomical and physiological properties. Using single-cell RNA-sequencing, we comprehensively characterized the transcriptomes of 40 PN classes and unequivocally identified transcriptomes for 6 classes. We found a new lineage-specific transcription factor that instructs PN dendrite targeting. Transcriptomes of closely-related PN classes exhibit the largest difference during circuit assembly, but become indistinguishable in adults, suggesting that neuronal subtype diversity peaks during development. Genes encoding transcription factors and cell-surface molecules are the most differentially expressed, indicating their central roles in specifying neuronal identity. Finally, we show that PNs use highly redundant combinatorial molecular codes to distinguish subtypes, enabling robust specification of cell identity and circuit assembly.
The development of CRISPR/Cas9 technologies has dramatically increased the accessibility and efficiency of genome editing in many organisms. In general,  in vivo  germline expression of Cas9 results in substantially higher activity than embryonic injection. However, no transgenic lines expressing Cas9 have been developed for the major mosquito disease vector  Aedes aegypti . Here, we describe the generation of multiple stable, transgenic  Ae. aegypti  strains expressing Cas9 in the germline, resulting in dramatic improvements in both the consistency and efficiency of genome modifications using CRISPR. Using these strains, we disrupted numerous genes important for normal morphological development, and even generated triple mutants from a single injection. We have also managed to increase the rates of homology directed repair by more than an order of magnitude. Given the exceptional mutagenic efficiency and specificity of the Cas9 strains we built, they can be used for high-throughput reverse genetic screens to help functionally annotate the  Ae. aegypti  genome. Additionally, these strains represent a first step towards the development of novel population control technologies targeting  Ae. aegypti  that rely on Cas9-based gene drives.  Significance Statement   Aedes aegypti  is the principal vector of multiple arboviruses that significantly affect human health including dengue, chikungunya, and zika. Development of tools for efficient genome engineering in this mosquito will not only lay the foundation for the application of novel genetic control strategies that do not rely on insecticides, but will also accelerate basic research on key biological processes involved in disease transmission. Here, we report the development of a transgenic CRISPR approach for rapid gene disruption in this organism. Given their high editing efficiencies, the Cas9 strains we developed can be used to quickly generate novel genome modifications allowing for high-throughput gene targeting, and can possibly facilitate the development of gene drives, thereby accelerating comprehensive functional annotation and development of innovative population control strategies for  Ae. aegypti .
The Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD) hypothesis predicts that early-life environmental exposures can be detrimental to later-life health, and that mismatch between the pre- and postnatal environment may contribute to the growing non-communicable disease (NCD) epidemic. Within this is an increasingly recognised role for epigenetic mechanisms; epigenetic modifications can be influenced by, e.g., nutrition, and can alter gene expression in mothers and offspring. Currently, there are no whole-genome transcriptional studies of response to nutritional alteration. Thus, we sought to explore how nutrition affects the expression of genes involved in epigenetic processes in  Drosophila melanogaster.  We manipulated  Drosophila  food macronutrient composition at the F0 generation, mismatched F1 offspring back to a standard diet, and analysed the transcriptome of the F0  F3 generations by RNA-sequencing. At F0, the altered (high protein, low carbohydrate, HPLC) diet increased expression of genes involved in epigenetic processes, with coordinated downregulation of genes involved in immunity, neurotransmission and neurodevelopment, oxidative stress and metabolism. Upon reversion to standard nutrition, mismatched F1 and F2 generations displayed multigenerational inheritance of altered gene expression. By the F3 generation, gene expression had reverted to F0 (matched) levels. These nutritionally-induced gene expression changes demonstrate that dietary alteration can upregulate epigenetic genes, which may influence the expression of genes with broad biological functions. Further, the multigenerational inheritance of the gene expression changes in F1 and F2 mismatched generations suggests a predictive adaptive response (PAR) to maternal nutrition. Our findings may help to understand the interaction between maternal diet and future offspring health, and have direct implications for the current NCD epidemic.
The evolutionary history of vertebrates is marked by three ancient whole-genome duplications: two successive rounds in the ancestor of vertebrates, and a third one specific to teleost fishes. Biased loss of most duplicates enriched the genome for specific genes, such as slow evolving genes, but this selective retention process is not well understood. To understand what drives the long-term preservation of duplicate genes, we characterized duplicated genes in terms of their expression patterns. We used a new method of expression enrichment analysis, TopAnat, applied to  in situ  hybridization data from thousands of genes from zebrafish and mouse. We showed that the presence of expression in the nervous system is a good predictor of a higher rate of retention of duplicate genes after whole-genome duplication. Further analyses suggest that purifying selection against the toxic effects of misfolded or misinteracting proteins, which is particularly strong in non-renewing neural tissues, likely constrains the evolution of coding sequences of nervous system genes, leading indirectly to the preservation of duplicate genes after whole-genome duplication. Whole-genome duplications thus greatly contributed to the expansion of the toolkit of genes available for the evolution of profound novelties of the nervous system at the base of the vertebrate radiation.
The expression of gelsolin (GSN) is abnormal in many cancers, including extranodal nasal-type natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL). However, the biological function of GSN and its mechanism in NKTCL remain unclear. We found GSN overexpression significantly suppressed cell proliferation, colony formationand invasion and promoted apoptosis of YTS cells. Moreover, the upregulation of GSN significantly decreased the protein levels of PI3K and p-AKT. Interestingly, blocking the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway significantly inhibited cell proliferation and invasion and promoted apoptosis of YTS cells. In conclusion, our findings indicate that GSN can suppress cell proliferation and invasion and promote apoptosis of YTS cells, which is likely to be mediated at least partially through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
The extinct New World stilt-legged, or NWSL, equids constitute a perplexing group of Pleistocene horses endemic to North America. Their slender distal limb bones resemble those of Asiatic asses, such as the Persian onager. Previous palaeogenetic studies, however, have suggested a closer relationship to caballine horses than to Asiatic asses. Here, we report complete mitochondrial and partial nuclear genomes from NWSL equids from across their geographic range. Although multiple NWSL equid species have been named, our palaeogenomic and morphometric analyses support the idea that there was only a single species of middle to late Pleistocene NWSL equid, and demonstrate that it falls outside of crown group  Equus . We therefore propose a new genus,  Haringtonhippus , for the sole species  H. francisci . Our combined genomic and phenomic approach to resolving the systematics of extinct megafauna will allow for an improved understanding of the full extent of the terminal Pleistocene extinction event.
The formin Delphilin binds the glutamate receptor, GluR2, in dendritic spines of Purkinje cells. Both proteins play a role in learning. To understand how Delphilin functions in neurons, we studied the actin assembly properties of this formin. Formins have a conserved formin homology 2 domain, which nucleates and remains associated with the fast growing end of actin filaments, influencing filament growth with input from the adjacent formin homology 1 domain. The strength of nucleation and elongation varies widely across formins. Additionally, most formins have conserved domains that regulate actin assembly through an intramolecular interaction. Delphilin is distinct from other formins in several ways: its expression is limited to Purkinje cells; it lacks autoinhibitory domains; its formin homology 1 domains has minimal proline-rich sequence. We found that Delphilin is an actin nucleator that does not accelerate elongation, although it binds tightly to the barbed end of filaments. In addition, Delphilin exhibits a preference for actin isoforms, which has not been described or systematically studied in other formins. Finally, Delphilin is the first formin studied that is not regulated by intramolecular interactions. We speculate how the activity we observe is consistent with its localization in the small dendritic spines.  Abbreviations: FH1, formin homology 1; FH2, formin homology 2; DID, diaphanous inhibitory domain; DAD, diaphanous autoinhibitory domain; LTD, long term depression; PSD, post synaptic density; PDZ, post synaptic density protein (PSD95), Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor (Dlg1), and zonula occludens-1 protein (zo-1).
The genome is three-dimensionally organized in the cell, and the mammalian genome DNA is partitioned into submegabase-sized chromatin domains. Genome functions are regulated within and across the domains according to their organization, whereas the chromatin itself is highly dynamic. However, the details of such dynamic organization of chromatin domains in living cells remain unclear. To unify chromatin dynamics and organization, we recently demonstrated that structural information of chromatin domains in living human cells can be extracted from analyses of the subdiffusive nucleosome movement using mathematical modeling. Our mathematical analysis suggested that as the chromatin domain becomes smaller and more compact, nucleosome movement becomes increasingly restricted. Here, we show the implication of these results for bridging the gap between chromatin dynamics and organization, and provide physical insight into chromatin domains as efficient units to conduct genome functions in the thermal noisy environment of the cell.  Extra View to  Shinkai S, Nozaki T, Maeshima K, Togashi Y. Dynamic Nucleosome Movement Provides Structural Information of Topological Chromatin Domains in Living Human Cells. PLoS Comput Biol. 2016;12(10):e1005136. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005136. PubMed PMID: 27764097; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC5072619.  Funding  This work was supported by Platform Project for Supporting in Drug Discovery and Life Science Research (Platform for Dynamic Approaches to Living System) from MEXT and AMED; KAKENHI under Grant JP16H01408, JP23115007, JP23115005, JP16H04746; CREST grant (JPMJCR15G2) from JST; and Research Fellowship for Young Scientists under Grant JP13J04821, JP16J07205.  Disclosure  No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.  Acknowledgements  We would like to thank Dr. Takashi Toda for comments regarding the manuscript.
The goal of cancer immunotherapy is to boost a patients immune response to a tumor. Yet, the design of an effective immunotherapy is complicated by various factors, including a potentially immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, immune-modulating effects of conventional treatments, and therapy-related toxicities. These complexities can be incorporated into mathematical and computational models of cancer immunotherapy that can then be used to aid in rational therapy design. In this review, we survey modeling approaches under the umbrella of the major challenges facing immunotherapy development, which encompass tumor classification, optimal treatment scheduling, and combination therapy design. Although overlapping, each challenge has presented unique opportunities for modelers to make contributions using analytical and numerical analysis of model outcomes, as well as optimization algorithms. We discuss several examples of models that have grown in complexity as more biological information has become available, showcasing how model development is a dynamic process interlinked with the rapid advances in tumor-immune biology. We conclude the review with recommendations for modelers both with respect to methodology and biological direction that might help keep modelers at the forefront of cancer immunotherapy development.
Background  The high-dose hook effect (also called prozone effect) refers to the observation that if a multivalent protein acts as a linker between two parts of a protein complex, then increasing the amount of linker protein in the mixture does not always increase the amount of fully formed complex. On the contrary, at a high enough concentration range the amount of fully formed complex actually decreases. It has been observed that allosterically regulated proteins seem less susceptible to this effect. The aim of this study was two-fold: First, to investigate the mathematical basis of how allostery mitigates the prozone effect. And second, to explore the consequences of allostery and the high-dose hook effect using the example of calmodulin, a calcium-sensing protein that regulates the switch between long-term potentiation and long-term depression in neurons.  Results  We use a combinatorial model of a perfect linker protein (with infinite binding affinity) to mathematically describe the hook effect and its behaviour under allosteric conditions. We show that allosteric regulation does indeed mitigate the high-dose hook effect. We then turn to calmodulin as a real-life example of an allosteric protein. Using kinetic simulations, we show that calmodulin is indeed subject to a hook effect. We also show that this effect is stronger in the presence of the allosteric activator Ca 2+ /calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), because it reduces the overall cooperativity of the calcium-calmodulin system. It follows that, surprisingly, there are conditions where increased amount of allosteric activator actually  decrease  the activity of a protein.  Conclusions  We show that cooperative binding can indeed act as a protective mechanism against the hook effect. This will have implications  in vivo  where the extent of cooperativity of a protein can be modulated, for instance, by allosteric activators or inhibitors. This can result in counterintuitive effects of decreased activity with increased concentrations of both the allosteric protein itself and its allosteric activators.
The history of maize has been characterized by major demographic events including changes in population size associated with domestication and range expansion as well as gene flow with wild relatives. The interplay between demographic history and selection has shaped diversity across maize populations and genomes. Here, we investigate these processes based on high-depth resequencing data from 31 maize landraces spanning the pre-Columbian distribution of maize as well as four wild progenitor individuals ( Zea mays  ssp.  parviglumis ) from the Balsas River Valley in Mexico. Genome-wide demographic analyses reveal that maize domestication and spread resulted in pronounced declines in effective population size due to both a protracted bottleneck and serial founder effects, while, concurrently,  parviglumis  experienced population growth. The cost of maize domestication and spread was an increase in deleterious alleles in the domesticate relative to its wild progenitor. This cost is particularly pronounced in Andean maize, which appears to have experienced a more dramatic founder event when compared to other maize populations. Introgression from the wild teosinte  Zea mays  ssp.  mexicana  into maize in the highlands of Mexico and Guatemala is found found to decrease the prevalence of deleterious alleles, likely due to the higher long-term effective population size of wild maize. These findings underscore the strong interaction between historical demography and the efficiency of selection species- and genome-wide and suggest domesticated species with well-characterized histories may be particularly useful for understanding this interplay.
The human distal limbs have a high spatial acuity for noxious stimuli but a low density of pain-sensing neurites. To elucidate mechanisms underlying the pain fovea, we sparsely traced non-peptidergic nociceptors across the body using a newly generated  MrgprD CreERT2   mouse line. We found that mouse plantar paw skin also has a low density of MrgprD +  neurites, and individual arbors in different locations are comparable in size. Surprisingly, the central arbors of plantar paw and trunk innervating nociceptors have distinct morphologies in the spinal cord. This regional difference is well correlated with a heightened signal transmission for plantar paw circuits, as revealed by both spinal cord slice recordings and behavior assays. Taken together, our results elucidate a novel somatotopic functional organization of the mammalian pain system and suggest that regional central arbor structure could facilitate the magnification of plantar paw regions to contribute to the pain fovea.
The human malaria parasite  Plasmodium vivax  is resistant to malaria control strategies maintaining high genetic diversity even when transmission is low. To investigate whether declining  P. vivax  transmission leads to increasing  P. vivax  population structure that would facilitate elimination, we genotyped samples from a wide range of transmission intensities and spatial scales in the Southwest Pacific, including two time points at one site (Tetere, Solomon Islands) during intensified control. Analysis of 887  P. vivax  microsatellite haplotypes from hyperendemic Papua New Guinea (PNG, n = 443), meso-hyperendemic Solomon Islands (n= 420), and hypoendemic Vanuatu (n=24) revealed increasing population structure and multilocus linkage disequilibrium and a modest decline in diversity as transmission decreases over space and time. In Solomon Islands, which has had sustained control efforts for 20 years, and Vanuatu, which has experienced sustained low transmission for many years, significant population structure was observed at different spatial scales. We conclude that control efforts will eventually impact  P. vivax  population structure and with sustained pressure, populations may eventually fragment into a limited number of clustered foci that could be targeted for elimination.
iCLIP and eCLIP techniques facilitate the detection of protein-RNA interaction sites at high resolution, based on diagnostic events at crosslink sites. However, previous methods do not explicitly model the specifics of iCLIP and eCLIP truncation patterns and possible biases. We developed PureCLIP, a hidden Markov model based approach, which simultaneously performs peak calling and individual crosslink site detection. It explicitly incorporates RNA abundances and, for the first time, non-specific sequence biases. On both simulated and real data, PureCLIP is more accurate in calling crosslink sites than other state-of-the-art methods and has a higher agreement across replicates. Link:  https://github.com/skrakau/PureCLIP .
he inability to detect premature atherosclerosis significantly hinders implementation of personalized therapy to prevent coronary heart disease. A comprehensive understanding of arterial protein networks and how they change in early atherosclerosis could identify new biomarkers for disease detection and improved therapeutic targets. Here we describe the human arterial proteome and the proteomic features strongly associated with early atherosclerosis based on mass-spectrometry analysis of coronary artery and aortic specimens from 100 autopsied young adults (200 arterial specimens). Convex analysis of mixtures, differential dependent network modeling and bioinformatic analyses defined the composition, network re-wiring and likely regulatory features of the protein networks associated with early atherosclerosis. Among other things the results reveal major differences in mitochondrial protein mass between the coronary artery and distal aorta in both normal and atherosclerotic samples  highlighting the importance of anatomic specificity and dynamic network structures in in the study of arterial proteomics. The publicly available data resource and the description of the analysis pipeline establish a new foundation for understanding the proteomic architecture of atherosclerosis and provide a template for similar investigations of other chronic diseases characterized by multi-cellular tissue phenotypes.  Highlights  LC MS/MS analysis performed on 200 human aortic or coronary artery samples  Numerous proteins, networks, and regulatory pathways associated with early atherosclerosis  Mitochondrial proteins mass and selected metabolic regulatory pathways vary dramatically by disease status and anatomic location  Publically available data resource and analytic pipeline are provided or described in detail
he influence of population size  (N)  on natural selection acting on alleles that affect fitness has been understood for over half a century 1 . As  N  declines, genetic drift overwhelms selection and alleles with direct fitness effects are rendered neutral. Often, though, alleles experience so called indirect selection, meaning they affect not the fitness of an individual but the fitness distribution of its offspring. Some of the best studied examples of indirect selection include alleles that modify aspects of the genetic system such as recombination 2  and mutation 3  rates. Here we use analytics, simulations and experimental populations of  S. cerevisiae  to show that modifiers that increase the genomic mutation rate (mutators) are favored by indirect selection in large populations but become disfavored as  N  declines. This surprising phenomenon of sign inversion in selective effect demonstrates that indirect selection on a mutator exhibits a qualitatively novel dependence on  N . Sign inversion may help understand the relatively sporadic distribution of mutators in nature despite their frequent emergence in laboratory populations. More generally, sign inversion may be broadly applicable to other instances of indirect selection, suggesting a previously unappreciated but critical role of population size in evolution.
The inherent stochasticity of molecular reactions prevents us from predicting the exact state of single-cells in a population. However, when a population grows at steady-state, the probability to observe a cell with particular combinations of properties is fixed. Here we validate and exploit existing theory on the statistics of single-cell growth in order to predict the probability of phenotypic characteristics such as cell-cycle times, volumes, accuracy of division and cell-age distributions, using real-time imaging data for  Escherichia coli  and  Bacillus subtilis . Our results show that single-cell growth-statistics can accurately be predicted from a few basic measurements. These equations relate different phenotypic characteristics, and can therefore be used in consistency tests of experimental single-cell growth data and prediction of single-cell statistics. We also exploit these statistical relations in the development of a fast stochastic-simulation algorithm of single-cell growth and protein expression. This algorithm greatly reduces computational burden, by recovering the statistics of growing cell-populations from the simulation of only one of its lineages. Our approach is validated by comparison of simulations and experimental data. This work illustrates a methodology for the prediction, analysis and tests of consistency of single-cell growth and protein expression data from a few basic statistical principles.
The iPSYCH consortium has established a large Danish population-based Case-Cohort sample (iPSYCH2012) aimed at unravelling the genetic and environmental architecture of severe mental disorders. The iPSYCH2012 sample is nested within the entire Danish population born 1981-2005 including 1,472,762 persons. This paper introduces the iPSYCH2012 sample and outlines key future research directions. Cases were identified as persons with schizophrenia (N=3,540), autism (N=16,146), ADHD (N=18,726), and affective disorder (N=26,380), of which 1928 had bipolar affective disorder. Controls were randomly sampled individuals (N=30,000). Within the sample of 86,189 individuals, a total of 57,377 individuals had at least one major mental disorder. DNA was extracted from the neonatal dried blood spot samples obtained from the Danish Neonatal Screening Biobank and genotyped using the Illumina PsychChip. Genotyping was successful for 90% of the sample. The assessments of exome sequencing, methylation profiling, metabolome profiling, vitamin-D, inflammatory and neurotrophic factors are in progress. For each individual, the iPSYCH2012 sample also includes longitudinal information on health, prescribed medicine, social and socioeconomic information and analogous information among relatives. To the best of our knowledge, the iPSYCH2012 sample is the largest and most comprehensive data source for the combined study of genetic and environmental aetiologies of severe mental disorders.
The interplay of divergent selection and gene flow is key to understanding how populations adapt to local environments and how new species form. Here, we use DNA polymorphism data and genome-wide variation in recombination rate to jointly infer the strength and timing of selection, as well as the baseline level of gene flow under various demographic scenarios. We model how divergent selection leads to a genome-wide negative correlation between recombination rate and genetic differentiation among populations. Our theory shows that the selection density, i.e. the selection coefficient per base pair, is a key parameter underlying this relationship. We then develop a procedure for parameter estimation that accounts for the confounding effect of background selection. Applying this method to two datasets from  Mimulus guttatus , we infer a strong signal of adaptive divergence in the face of gene flow between populations growing on and off phytotoxic serpentine soils. However, the genome-wide intensity of this selection is not exceptional compared to what  M. guttatus  populations may typically experience when adapting to local conditions. We also find that selection against genome-wide introgression from the selfing sister species  M. nasutus  has acted to maintain a barrier between these two species over at least the last 250 ky. Our study provides a theoretical framework for linking genome-wide patterns of divergence and recombination with the underlying evolutionary mechanisms that drive this differentiation.
The lack of multivariate methods for decoding the representational content of interregional neural communication has left it difficult to know what information is represented in distributed brain circuit interactions. Here we present Multi-Connection Pattern Analysis (MCPA), which works by learning mappings between the activity patterns of the populations as a factor of the information being processed. These maps are used to predict the activity from one neural population based on the activity from the other population. Successful MCPA-based decoding indicates the involvement of distributed computational processing and provides a framework for probing the representational structure of the interaction. Simulations demonstrate the efficacy of MCPA in realistic circumstances. Applying MCPA to fMRI data shows that interactions between visual cortex regions are sensitive to information that distinguishes individual natural images, suggesting that image individuation occurs through interactive computation across the visual processing network. MCPA-based representational similarity analyses (RSA) results support models of error coding in interactions among regions of the network. Further RSA analyses relate the non-linear information transformation operations between layers of a computational model (HMAX) of visual processing to the information transformation between regions of the visual processing network. Additionally, applying MCPA to human intracranial electrophysiological data demonstrates that the interaction between occipital face area and fusiform face area contains information about individual faces. Thus, MCPA can be used to assess the information represented in the coupled activity of interacting neural circuits and probe the underlying principles of information transformation between regions.
The locus coeruleus (LC) projects throughout the brain and spinal cord and is the major source of central noradrenaline. It remains unclear whether the LC acts functionally as a single global effector or as discrete modules. Specifically, while spinal-projections from LC neurons can exert analgesic actions, it is not known whether they can act independently of ascending LC projections. Using viral vectors taken up at axon terminals, we expressed chemogenetic actuators selectively in LC neurons with spinal ( LC :SC  ) or prefrontal cortex ( LC :PFC  ) projections. Activation of the  LC :SC   module produced robust, lateralised analgesia while activation of  LC :PFC   produced aversion. In a neuropathic pain model,  LC :SC   activation reduced hind-limb sensitization and induced conditioned place preference. By contrast, activation of  LC :PFC   exacerbated spontaneous pain, produced aversion and increased anxiety-like behaviour. This independent, contrasting modulation of pain-related behaviours mediated by distinct noradrenergic modules provides evidence for a discrete functional organisation of the LC.
 Long Interspersed Nuclear Element-1 (LINE-1, L1) is a mobile genetic element active in human genomes. L1-encoded ORF1 and ORF2 proteins bind L1 RNAs, forming ribonucleoproteins (RNPs). These RNPs interact with diverse host proteins, some repressive and others required for the L1 lifecycle. Using differential affinity purifications and quantitative mass spectrometry, we have characterized the proteins associated with distinctive L1 macromolecular complexes. Our findings support the presence of multiple L1-derived retrotransposition intermediates  in vivo . Among them, we describe a cytoplasmic intermediate that we hypothesize to be the canonical ORF1p/ORF2p/L1 - RNA-containing RNP, and we describe a nuclear population containing ORF2p, but lacking ORF1p, which likely contains host factors participating in template-primed reverse transcription.
The metazoan protein BCL2-associated athanogene cochaperone 6 (Bag6) forms a hetero-trimeric complex with ubiquitin-like 4A (Ubl4A) and transmembrane domain recognition complex 35 (TRC35). This Bag6 complex is involved in tail-anchored protein targeting and various protein quality control pathways in the cytosol as well as regulating transcription and histone methylation in the nucleus. Here we present a crystal structure of Bag6 and its cytoplasmic retention factor TRC35, revealing that TRC35 is remarkably conserved throughout opisthokont lineage except at the C-terminal Bag6-binding groove, which evolved to accommodate a novel metazoan factor Bag6. Remarkably, while TRC35 and its fungal homolog guided entry of tail-anchored protein 4 (Get4) utilize a conserved hydrophobic patch to bind their respective C-terminal binding partners Bag6 and Get5, Bag6 wraps around TRC35 on the opposite face relative to the Get4-5 interface. We further demonstrate that the residues involved in TRC35 binding are not only critical for occluding the Bag6 nuclear localization sequence from karyopherin  binding to retain Bag6 in the cytosol, but also for preventing TRC35 from succumbing to RNF126-mediated ubiquitylation and degradation. The results provide a mechanism for regulation of Bag6 nuclear localization and the functional integrity of the Bag6 complex in the cytosol.
ATEMENT  Gene expression at the  Drosophila  midgut-hindgut boundary is a hybrid of both organs. Hybrid cells repress stem cell division, but boundary injury activates stem cell division through inter-organ JAK-STAT signaling.  ABSTRACT  The molecular identities and regulation of cells at inter-organ boundaries are often unclear, despite the increasingly appreciated role of organ boundaries in disease. Using  Drosophila  as a model, here we show that a specific population of adult midgut organ boundary intestinal stem cells (OB-ISCs) is regulated by the neighboring hindgut, a developmentally distinct organ. This distinct OB-ISCs control is due to proximity to a specialized transition zone between the endodermal midgut and ectodermal hindgut that shares molecular signatures of both organs, which we term the hybrid zone (HZ). During homeostasis, proximity to the HZ restrains OB-ISC proliferation. However, injury to the adult HZ/hindgut drives up-regulation of  upaired-3  cytokine and OB-ISC hyperplasia. If HZ disruption is severe, hyperplastic OB-ISCs expand across the inter-organ boundary. Our data suggest that inter-organ signaling plays an important role in controlling OB-ISCs in homeostasis and injury repair, which is likely critical in prevention of disease.
The most recent genome-wide association study in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) demonstrates a disproportionate contribution from low-frequency variants to genetic susceptibility of disease. We have therefore begun Project MinE, an international collaboration that seeks to analyse whole-genome sequence data of at least 15,000 ALS patients and 7,500 controls. Here, we report on the design of Project MinE and pilot analyses of newly whole-genome sequenced 1,264 ALS patients and 611 controls drawn from the Netherlands. As has become characteristic of sequencing studies, we find an abundance of rare genetic variation (minor allele frequency &amp;lt; 0.1 %), the vast majority of which is absent in public data sets. Principal component analysis reveals local geographical clustering of these variants within The Netherlands. We use the whole-genome sequence data to explore the implications of poor geographical matching of cases and controls in a sequence-based disease study and to investigate how ancestry-matched, externally sequenced controls can induce false positive associations. Also, we have publicly released genome-wide minor allele counts in cases and controls, as well as results from genic burden tests.
The motor system prepares for movements well in advance of their execution. In the gaze control system, premotor neurons that produce a burst of activity for the movement are also active leading up to the saccade. The dynamics of preparatory neural activity have been well described by stochastic accumulator models, and variability in the accumulation dynamics has been shown to be correlated with reaction times of the eventual saccade, but it is unclear whether this activity is purely preparatory in nature or has features indicative of a hidden movement command. We explicitly tested whether preparatory neural activity in premotor neurons of the primate superior colliculus has motor potential. We removed inhibition on the saccadic system using reflex blinks, which turn off downstream gating, and found that saccades can be initiated before underlying activity reaches levels seen under normal conditions. Accumulating low-frequency activity was predictive of eye movement dynamics tens of milliseconds in advance of the actual saccade, indicating the presence of a latent movement command. We also show that reaching threshold is  not  a necessary condition for movement initiation, contrary to the postulates of accumulation-to-threshold models. The results bring into question extant models of saccade generation and support the possibility of a concurrent representation for movement preparation and generation.  Significance Statement  How the brain plans for upcoming actions before deciding to initiate them is a central question in neuroscience. Popular theories suggest that movement planning and execution occur in serial stages, separated by a decision boundary in neural activity space (e.g., threshold), which needs to be crossed before the movement is executed. By removing inhibitory gating on the motor system, we show here that the activity required to initiate a saccade can be flexibly modulated. We also show that evolving activity during movement planning is a hidden motor command. The results have important implications for our understanding of how movements are generated, in addition to providing useful information for decoding movement intention based on planning-related activity.  Impact Statement  Non-invasive disinhibition of the oculomotor system shows that ongoing preparatory activity in the superior colliculus has movement-generating potential and need not rise to threshold in order to produce a saccade.
hysiological processes underlying non-invasive brain activity measurements are not well understood. Here, we developed a novel connectome-based brain network model that integrates individual structural and functional data with neural population dynamics to support multi-scale neurophysiological inference. Simulated populations were linked by structural connectivity and, as a novelty, driven by electroencephalography (EEG) source activity. Simulations not only predicted subjects individual resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) time series and spatial network topologies over 20 minutes of activity, but more importantly, they also revealed precise neurophysiological mechanisms that underlie and link six empirical observations from different scales and modalities: (1) slow resting-state fMRI oscillations, (2) spatial topologies of functional connectivity networks, (3) excitation-inhibition balance, (4, 5) pulsed inhibition on short and long time scales, and (6) fMRI power-law scaling. These findings underscore the potential of this new modelling framework for general inference and integration of neurophysiological knowledge to complement empirical studies.
Genetically encoded Frster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) based biosensors report on changes in biochemical states in single living cells. The performance of biosensors depends on their brightness and dynamic range, which are dependent on the characteristics of the fluorescent proteins that are employed. Cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) is frequently combined with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) as FRET pair in biosensors. However, current YFPs are prone to photobleaching and pH changes. In addition, more efficient acceptors may yield biosensors that have higher contrast. In this study, we evaluated the properties of a diverse set of acceptor fluorescent proteins in combination with the optimized CFP variant mTurquoise2 as the donor. To determine the theoretical performance of acceptors, the Frster radius was determined. The practical performance was determined by measuring FRET efficiency and photostability of tandem fusion proteins in mammalian cells. Our results show that mNeonGreen is the most efficient acceptor for mTurquoise2 and that the photostability is better than SYFP2. The non-fluorescent YFP variant sREACh is an efficient acceptor, which is useful in lifetime-based FRET experiments. Among the orange and red fluorescent proteins, mChery and mScarlet-I are the best performing acceptors. Several new pairs were applied in a multimolecular FRET based sensor for detecting activation of a heterotrimeric G-protein by G-protein coupled receptors. The sensor with mScarlet-I as acceptor and mTurquoise2 as donor shows a higher dynamic range in ratiometric FRET imaging experiments and less variability than with mCherry as acceptor, due to the high quantum yield and efficient maturation of mScarlet-I. Overall, the sensor with mNeonGreen as acceptor and mTurquoise2 as donor showed the highest dynamic range in ratiometric FRET imaging experiments with the G-protein sensor.
Differentiation induces reorganization of microtubules (MTs) into non-centrosomal arrays in a variety of tissues. The physiological functions of these microtubule arrays are just beginning to be understood as few tools currently exist to genetically perturb microtubule organization  in vivo , particularly in mammals. We developed a genetic toolkit that can be broadly applied to the study of microtubule dynamics and function in many cell types. Using a TRE-EB1-GFP mouse we demonstrate that distinct differentiation transitions in the epidermis cause a decrease in microtubule growth rates and microtubule growth lifetimes, resulting in strong suppression of dynamics. To understand the physiological functions of these stable, non-centrosomal microtubules, we generated a TRE-spastin mouse, which can be used to perturb microtubule organization in a wide-variety of tissues  in vivo.  Unexpectedly, microtubule perturbation exclusively in post-mitotic keratinocytes had profound consequences on epidermal morphogenesis. We uncoupled novel cell-autonomous roles for MTs in differentiation-driven cell flattening from non-cell autonomous functions in regulating proliferation, differentiation, and tissue architecture. Taken together, we have created tools that will be broadly useful for the study of microtubule dynamics and function in mammalian tissue physiology and have used them to uncover previously unknown functions for non-centrosomal microtubules during mammalian epidermal development.
Gene duplication is a major source of functional innovations and genome complexity, albeit this evolutionary process requires the preservation of duplicates in the genomes for long time. However, the population genetic mechanisms governing this preservation, especially in the critical very initial phase, have remained largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that gene duplication confers  per se  a weak selective advantage in scenarios of fitness trade-offs. Through a precise quantitative description of a model system, we show that a second gene copy enhances the information transfer from the environmental signal to the phenotypic response by reducing gene expression inaccuracies derived from pervasive molecular noise and suboptimal gene regulation. We then reveal that such a phenotypic accuracy yields a selective advantage in the order of 0.1% on average, which would allow the positive selection of gene duplication in populations with moderate or large sizes. This advantage is greater at higher noise levels and intermediate concentrations of the environmental molecule, when fitness trade-offs become more evident. Moreover, we show that the genome rearrangement rates greatly condition the eventual fixation of duplicated genes, either by natural selection or by random genetic drift. Overall, our theoretical results highlight an original adaptive value for cells carrying new-born duplicates, broadly analyze the selective conditions that determine their early fates in different organisms, and reconcile population genetics with evolution by gene duplication.  SIGNIFICANCE  Gene duplication is considered a major driver for the evolution of biological complexity. However, it is still enigmatic to what extent natural selection and genetic drift have governed this evolutionary process. This work uncovers a selective advantage for genotypes carrying duplicates, called phenotypic accuracy, widely characterized thanks to a multi-scale mathematical model coupling gene regulation with population genetics. Importantly, the integrative results presented here provide a detailed mechanistic description for the fixation of duplicates, which allows making predictions about the genome architectures, and which is relevant to understand the origins of complexity.
The precision of multisensory heading perception improves when visual and vestibular cues arising from the same cause, namely motion of the observer through a stationary environment, are integrated. Thus, in order to determine how the cues should be processed, the brain must infer the causal relationship underlying the multisensory cues. In heading perception, however, it is unclear whether observers follow the Bayesian strategy, a simpler non-Bayesian heuristic, or even perform causal inference at all. We developed an efficient and robust computational framework to perform Bayesian model comparison of causal inference strategies, which incorporates a number of alternative assumptions about the observers. With this framework, we investigated whether human observers performance in an  explicit  cause attribution and an  implicit  heading discrimination task can be modeled as a causal inference process. In the explicit inference task, all subjects accounted for cue disparity when reporting judgments of common cause, although not necessarily all in a Bayesian fashion. By contrast, but in agreement with previous findings, data from the heading discrimination task only could not rule out that several of the same observers were adopting a forced-fusion strategy, whereby cues are integrated regardless of disparity. Only when we combined evidence from both tasks we were able to rule out forced-fusion in the heading discrimination task. Crucially, findings were robust across a number of variants of models and analyses. Our results demonstrate that our proposed computational framework allows researchers to ask complex questions within a rigorous Bayesian framework that accounts for parameter and model uncertainty.
The process of speciation involves populations diverging over time until they are genetically and reproductively isolated. Hybridization between nascent species was long thought to directly oppose speciation. However, the amount of interspecific genetic exchange (introgression) mediated by hybridization remains largely unknown, although recent progress in genome sequencing has made measuring introgression more tractable. A natural place to look for individuals with admixed ancestry (indicative of introgression) is in regions where species co-occur. In west Africa,  D. santomea  and  D. yakuba  hybridize on the island of So Tom, while  D. yakuba  and  D. teissieri  hybridize on the nearby island of Bioko. In this report, we quantify the genomic extent of introgression between the three species of the  Drosophila yakuba  clade ( D .  yakuba, D. santomea ),  D. teissieri ). We sequenced the genomes of 86 individuals from all three species. We also developed and applied a new statistical framework, using a hidden Markov approach, to identify introgression. We found that introgression has occurred between both species pairs but most introgressed segments are small (on the order of a few kilobases). After ruling out the retention of ancestral polymorphism as an explanation for these similar regions, we find that the sizes of introgressed haplotypes indicate that genetic exchange is not recent (&amp;gt;1,000 generations ago). We additionally show that in both cases, introgression was rarer on  X  chromosomes than on autosomes which is consistent with sex chromosomes playing a large role in reproductive isolation. Even though the two species pairs have stable contemporary hybrid zones, providing the opportunity for ongoing gene flow, our results indicate that genetic exchange between these species is currently rare.  AUTHOR SUMMARY  Even though hybridization is thought to be pervasive among animal species, the frequency of introgression, the transfer of genetic material between species, remains largely unknown. In this report we quantify the magnitude and genomic distribution of introgression among three species of  Drosophila  that encompass the two known stable hybrid zones in this genetic model genus. We obtained whole genome sequences for individuals of the three species across their geographic range (including their hybrid zones) and developed a hidden Markov model-based method to identify patterns of genomic introgression between species. We found that nuclear introgression is rare between both species pairs, suggesting hybrids in nature rarely successfully backcross with parental species. Nevertheless, some  D. santomea  alleles introgressed into  D. yakuba  have spread from So Tom to other islands in the Gulf of Guinea where  D. santomea  is not found. Our results indicate that in spite of contemporary hybridization between species that produces fertile hybrids, the rates of gene exchange between species are low.
Crystallographic structure models in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) are optimized against the crystal diffraction data and geometrical restraints. This process of crystallographic refinement typically ignored hydrogen bond (H-bond) distances as a source of information. However, H-bond restraints can improve structures, especially at low resolution where diffraction data are limited. To improve low-resolution structure refinement, we present methods for deriving H-bond information either globally from well-refined high-resolution structures from the PDB-REDO databank, or specifically from on-the-fly constructed sets of homologous high-resolution structures. Refinement incorporating HOmology DErived Restraints (HODER), improves geometrical quality and the fit to the diffraction data for many low-resolution structures. Using approximately 60 years of CPU-time in massively parallel computing, we constructed a new instance of the PDB-REDO databank, a novel resource to help biologists gain insight on protein families or on specific structures, as we demonstrate with examples.
The rapid development of immunomodulatory cancer therapies has led to a concurrent increase in the application of informatics techniques to the analysis of tumors, the tumor microenvironment, and measures of systemic immunity. In this review, the use of tumors to gather genetic and expression data will first be explored. Next, techniques to assess tumor immunity are reviewed, including HLA status, predicted neoantigens, immune microenvironment deconvolution and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing. Attempts to integrate these data are in early stages of development and are discussed next. Finally, we review the application of these informatics strategies to therapy development, with a focus on vaccines, adoptive cell transfer, and checkpoint blockade therapies.
The rapid diversification of  Myotis  bats into more than 100 species is one of the most extensive mammalian radiations available for study. Efforts to understand relationships within  Myotis  have primarily utilized mitochondrial markers and trees inferred from nuclear markers lacked resolution. Our current understanding of relationships within  Myotis  is therefore biased towards a set of phylogenetic markers that may not reflect the history of the nuclear genome. To resolve this, we sequenced the full mitochondrial genomes of 37 representative  Myotis,  primarily from the New World, in conjunction with targeted sequencing of 3,648 ultraconserved elements (UCEs). We inferred the phylogeny and explored the effects of concatenation and summary phylogenetic methods, as well as combinations of markers based on informativeness or levels of missing data, on our results. Of the 294 phylogenies generated from the nuclear UCE data, all are significantly different from phylogenies inferred using mitochondrial genomes. Even within the nuclear data, quartet frequencies indicate that around half of all UCE loci conflict with the estimated species tree. Several factors can drive such conflict, including incomplete lineage sorting, introgressive hybridization, or even phylogenetic error. Despite the degree of discordance between nuclear UCE loci and the mitochondrial genome and among UCE loci themselves, the most common nuclear topology is recovered in one quarter of all analyses with strong nodal support. Based on these results, we re-examine the evolutionary history of  Myotis  to better understand the phenomena driving their unique nuclear, mitochondrial, and biogeographic histories.
FUSTr is a tool for finding genes in transcriptomic datasets under strong positive selection that automatically detects isoform designation patterns in transcriptome assemblies to maximize phylogenetic independence in downstream analysis. When applied to previously studied spider toxin families as well as simulated data, FUSTr successfully grouped coding sequences into proper gene families as well as correctly identified those under strong positive selection. FUSTr provides a tool capable of utilizing multi-processor high-performance computational facilities and is scalable for large transcriptomic biodiversity datasets.  Availability  FUSTr is freely available under a GNU license and can be downloaded at https://github.com/tijeco/FUSTr.  Contact  coleti16@students.ecu.edu
  Background  Reindeer ( Rangifer tarandus ) is the only fully domesticated species in the Cervidae family, and is the only cervid with a circumpolar distribution. Unlike all other cervids, female reindeer regularly grow cranial appendages (antlers, the defining characteristics of cervids), as well as males. Moreover, reindeer milk contains more protein and less lactose than bovids milk. A high quality reference genome of this specie will assist efforts to elucidate these and other important features in the reindeer.  Findings  We obtained 723.2 Gb (Gigabase) of raw reads by an Illumina Hiseq 4000 platform, and a 2.64 Gb final assembly, representing 95.7% of the estimated genome (2.76 Gb according to k-mer analysis), including 92.6% of expected genes according to BUSCO analysis. The contig N50 and scaffold N50 sizes were 89.7 kilo base (kb) and 0.94 mega base (Mb), respectively. We annotated 21,555 protein-coding genes and 1.07 Gb of repetitive sequences by  de novo  and homology-based prediction. Homology-based searches detected 159 rRNA, 547 miRNA, 1,339 snRNA and 863 tRNA sequences in the genome of  R. tarandus . The divergence time between  R. tarandus , and ancestors of  Bos taurus  and  Capra hircus , is estimated to be 29.55 million years ago (Mya).  Conclusions  Our results provide the first high-quality reference genome for the reindeer, and a valuable resource for studying evolution, domestication and other unusual characteristics of the reindeer.
The repeat region of the  Plasmodium falciparum  circumsporozoite protein (CSP) is a major vaccine antigen because it can be targeted by parasite neutralizing antibodies; however, little is known about this interaction. We used isothermal titration calorimetry, X-ray crystallography and mutagenesis-validated modeling to analyze the binding of a murine neutralizing antibody to  Plasmodium falciparum  CSP. Strikingly, we found that the repeat region of CSP is bound by multiple antibodies. This repeating pattern allows multiple weak interactions of single F AB  domains to accumulate and yield a complex with a dissociation constant in the low nM range. Because the CSP protein can potentially cross-link multiple B cell receptors (BCRs) we hypothesized that the B cell response might be T cell independent. However, while there was a modest response in mice deficient in T cell help, the bulk of the response was T cell dependent. By sequencing the BCRs of CSP-repeat specific B cells in inbred mice we found that these cells underwent somatic hypermutation and affinity maturation indicative of a T-dependent response. Last, we found that the BCR repertoire of responding B cells was limited suggesting that the structural simplicity of the repeat may limit the breadth of the immune response.  Author Summary  Vaccines aim to protect by inducing the immune system to make molecules called antibodies that can recognize molecules on the surface of invading pathogens. In the case of malaria, our most advanced vaccine candidates aim to promote the production of antibodies that recognize the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) molecule on the surface of the invasive parasite stage called the sporozoite. In this report we use X-ray crystallography to determine the structure of CSP-binding antibodies at the atomic level. We use other techniques such as isothermal titration calorimetry and structural modeling to examine how this antibody interacts with the CSP molecule. Strikingly, we found that each CSP molecule could bind 6 antibodies. This finding has implications for the immune response and may explain why high titers of antibody are needed for protection. Moreover, because the structure of the CSP repeat is quite simple we determined that the number of different kinds of antibodies that could bind this molecule are quite small. However a high avidity interaction between those antibodies and CSP can result from a process called affinity maturation that allows the body to learn how to make improved antibodies specific for pathogen molecules. These data show that while it is challenging for the immune system to recognize and neutralize CSP, it should be possible to generate viable vaccines targeting this molecule.
The representation and discovery of transcription factor (TF) sequence binding specificities is critical for understanding gene regulatory networks and interpreting the impact of disease-associated non-coding genetic variants. We present a novel TF binding motif representation, the K-mer Set Memory (KSM), which consists of a set of aligned k-mers that are over-represented at TF binding sites, and a new method called KMAC for  de novo  discovery of KSMs. We find that KSMs more accurately predict in vivo binding sites than position weight matrix models (PWMs) and other more complex motif models across a large set of ChIP-seq experiments. KMAC also identifies correct motifs in more experiments than four state-of-the-art motif discovery methods. In addition, KSM derived features outperform both PWM and deep learning model derived sequence features in predicting differential regulatory activities of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) alleles. Finally, we have applied KMAC to 1488 ENCODE TF ChIP-seq datasets and created a public resource of KSM and PWM motifs. We expect that the KSM representation and KMAC method will be valuable in characterizing TF binding specificities and in interpreting the effects of non-coding genetic variations.
The reproductive strategy of diatoms includes asexual and sexual phases, but in many species, including the model centric diatom  Thalassiosira pseudonana , sexual reproduction has never been observed. Furthermore, the environmental factors that trigger sexual reproduction in diatoms are not understood. Although genome sequences of a few diatoms are available, little is known about the molecular basis for sexual reproduction. Here we show that ammonium reliably induces the key sexual morphologies, including oogonia, auxospores, and spermatogonia, in two strains of  T. pseudonana ,  T. weissflogii , and  Cyclotella cryptica . RNA sequencing revealed 1,274 genes whose expression patterns changed when  T. pseudonana  was induced into sexual reproduction by ammonium. Some of the induced genes are linked to meiosis or encode flagellar structures of heterokont and cryptophyte algae. The identification of ammonium as an environmental trigger suggests an unexpected link between diatom bloom dynamics and strategies for enhancing population genetic diversity.
The segregation of the readily releasable pool of synaptic vesicles (RRP) in sub-pool which are differentially poised for exocytosis shapes short-term plasticity at depressing synapses. Here, we used in vitro recording and modeling of synaptic activity at the facilitating mice cerebellar granule cell to Purkinje cell synapse to demonstrate the existence of two sub-pools of vesicles in the RRP that can be differentially recruited upon fast changes in the stimulation frequency. We show that upon low-frequency stimulation, a population of fully-releasable vesicles is silenced, leading to full blockage of synaptic transmission. A second population of vesicles, reluctant to release by simple stimuli, is recruited in a millisecond time scale by high-frequency stimulation to support an ultrafast recovery of neurotransmitter release after low-frequency depression. The frequency-dependent mobilization or silencing of sub-pools of vesicles in granule cell terminals should play a major role in the filtering of sensorimotor information in the cerebellum.
The sequence of the chicken genome, like several other draft genome sequences, is presently not fully covered. Gaps, contigs assigned with low confidence and uncharacterized chromosomes result in gene fragmentation and imprecise gene annotation. Transcript abundance estimation from RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data relies on read quality, library complexity and expression normalization. In addition, the quality of the genome sequence used to map sequencing reads and the gene annotation that defines gene features must also be taken into account. Partially covered genome sequence causes the loss of sequencing reads from the mapping step, while an inaccurate definition of gene features induces imprecise read counts from the assignment step. Both steps can significantly bias interpretation of RNA-seq data. Here, we describe a dual transcript-discovery approach combining a genome-guided gene prediction and a  de novo  transcriptome assembly. This dual approach enabled us to increase the assignment rate of RNA-seq data by nearly 20% as compared to when using only the chicken reference annotation, contributing therefore to a more accurate estimation of transcript abundance. More generally, this strategy could be applied to any organism with partial genome sequence and/or lacking a manually-curated reference annotation in order to improve the accuracy of gene expression studies.
The shape of most animal cells is controlled by the actin cortex, a thin, isotropic network of dynamic actin filaments (F-actin) situated just beneath the plasma membrane. The cortex is held far from equilibrium by both active stresses and turnover: Myosin-II molecular motors drive deformations required for cell division, migration, and tissue morphogenesis, while turnover of the molecular components of the actin cortex relax stress and facilitate network reorganization. While many aspects of F-actin network viscoelasticity are well-characterized in the presence and absence of motor activity, a mechanistic understanding of how non-equilibrium actin turnover contributes to stress relaxation is still lacking. To address this, we developed a reconstituted in vitro system wherein the steady-state length and turnover rate of F-actin in entangled solutions are controlled by the actin regulatory proteins cofilin, profilin, and formin, which sever, recycle, and nucleate filaments, respectively. Cofilin-mediated severing accelerates the turnover and spatial reorganization of F-actin, without significant changes to filament length. Microrheology measurements demonstrate that cofilin-mediated severing is a single-timescale mode of stress relaxation that tunes the low-frequency viscosity over two orders of magnitude. These findings serve as the foundation for understanding the mechanics of more physiological F-actin networks with turnover, and inform an updated microscopic model of single-filament turnover. They also demonstrate that polymer activity, in the form of ATP hydrolysis on F-actin coupled to nucleotide-dependent cofilin binding, is sufficient to generate a form of active matter wherein asymmetric filament disassembly preserves filament number in spite of sustained severing.  Significance Statement  When an animal cell moves or divides, a disordered network of actin filaments (F-actin) plays a central role in controlling the resulting changes in cell shape. While it is known that continual turnover of F-actin by cofilin-mediated severing aids in reorganization of the cellular cytoskeleton, it is unclear how the turnover of structural elements alters the mechanical properties of the network. Here we show that severing of F-actin by cofilin results in a stress relaxation mechanism in entangled solutions characterized by a single-timescale set by the severing rate. Additionally, we identify ATP hydrolysis and nucleotide-dependent cofilin binding as sufficient ingredients to generate a non-equilibrium steady-state in which asymmetric F-actin disassembly preserves filament number in spite of sustained severing.
The spatial organization of RNA within cells is a crucial factor in a wide range of biological functions, spanning all kingdoms of life. However, a general understanding of RNA localization has been hindered by a lack of simple, high-throughput methods for mapping the transcriptomes of subcellular compartments. Here, we develop such a method, termed APEX-RIP, which combines peroxidase-catalyzed, spatially restricted in situ protein biotinylation with RNA-protein chemical crosslinking. We demonstrate that, using a single protocol, APEX-RIP can isolate RNAs from a variety of subcellular compartments, including the mitochondrial matrix, nucleus, bulk cytosol, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER), with higher specificity and coverage than do conventional approaches. We furthermore identify candidate RNAs localized to mitochondria-ER junctions and nuclear lamina, two compartments that are recalcitrant to classical biochemical purification. Since APEX-RIP is simple, versatile, and does not require special instrumentation, we envision its broad application in a variety of biological contexts.
The standard bootstrap (SBS), despite being computationally intensive, is widely used in maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses. We recently proposed the ultrafast bootstrap approximation (UFBoot) to reduce computing time while achieving more unbiased branch supports than SBS under mild model violations. UFBoot has been steadily adopted as an efficient alternative to SBS and other bootstrap approaches.  Here, we present UFBoot2, which substantially accelerates UFBoot and reduces the risk of overestimating branch supports due to polytomies or severe model violations. Additionally, UFBoot2 provides suitable bootstrap resampling strategies for phylogenomic data. UFBoot2 is 778 and 8.4 times (median) faster than SBS and RAxML rapid bootstrap on tested datasets, respectively. UFBoot2 is implemented in the IQ-TREE software package version 1.6 and freely available at http://www.iqtree.org.
 Motivation  The standard protocol for detecting variation in DNA is to map millions of short sequence reads to a known reference and find loci that differ. While this approach works well, it cannot be applied where the sample contains dense variants or is too distant from known references.  De novo  assembly or hybrid methods can recover genomic variation, but the cost of computation is often much higher. We developed a novel k-mer algorithm and software implementation, Kestrel, capable of characterizing densely-packed SNPs and large indels without mapping, assembly, or de Bruijn graphs.  Results  When applied to mosaic penicillin binding protein (PBP) genes in  Streptococcus pneumoniae,  we found near perfect concordance with assembled contigs at a fraction of the CPU time. Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) with this approach was able to bypass  de novo  assemblies. Kestrel has a very low false-positive rate when calling variants over the whole genome, but limitations of a purely k-mer based approach affect sensitivity.  Availability  Source code and documentation for a Java implementation of Kestrel can be found at https://github.com/paudano/kestrel. All test code for this publication is located at https://github.com/paudano/kescases.  Contact  paudano@gatech.edu, fredrik.vannberg@biology.gatech.edu
Objectives:  The Stopping Cavities Trial investigated effectiveness and safety of 38% silver diamine fluoride in arresting caries lesions.  Materials and Methods:  Double-blind randomized placebo-controlled superiority trial with 2 parallel groups. Oregon preschools. 66 preschool children with 1 lesion. 38% silver diamine fluoride or placebo (blue-tinted water), applied topically to the lesion. The primary endpoint was caries arrest (lesion inactivity, Nyvad criteria) 14-21 days post intervention. Dental plaque was collected from all children, and microbial composition was assessed by RNA sequencing from 2 lesions and 1 unaffected surface before treatment and at follow-up for 3 children from each group.  Results and Conclusion:  Mean fraction of arrested caries lesions in the silver diamine fluoride group was higher (0.72; 95% CI; 0.55, 0.84) than in the placebo group (0.05; 95% CI; 0.00, 0.16). Confirmatory analysis using generalized estimating equation log-linear regression, accounting for the number of treated surfaces and length of follow-up, indicated the fraction of arrested caries was significantly higher in the treatment group (relative risk, 17.3; 95% CI: 4.3 to 69.4). No harms were observed. RNA sequencing analysis identified no consistent changes in relative abundance of caries-associated microbes, nor emergence of antibiotic or metal resistance gene expression. Topical 38% silver diamine fluoride was effective and safe in arresting cavities in preschool children. The treatment is applicable to primary care practice and may reduce the burden of untreated tooth decay in the population.  Trial Registration:  ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02536040.  Clinical Significance  In this clinical trial, 72% of caries lesions were arrested by silver diamine fluoride, with no harms. Contrary to the presumed antibacterial mechanism, lesion bacterial composition changed negligibly. This simple topical treatment is applicable to primary care practice and may reduce the burden of untreated tooth decay in the population.
The study of molecular hostparasite interactions is essential to understand parasitic infection and adaptation within the host system. As well, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases require clear understanding of the molecular crosstalk between parasites and their hosts. As yet, experimental largescale identification of hostparasite molecular interactions remains challenging and the use of  in silico  predictions becomes then necessary. Here, we propose a computational integrative approach to predict hostparasite proteinprotein interaction (PPI) networks resulting from the infection of human by 12 different parasites. We used an orthology-based method to transfer highconfidence intraspecies interactions obtained from the STRING database to the corresponding interspecies protein pairs in the hostparasite system. To reduce the number of spurious predictions, our approach uses either the parasites predicted secretome and membrane proteins or only the secretome depending on whether they are uni- or multicellular respectively. Besides, the host proteome is filtered for proteins expressed in selected cellular localizations and tissues supporting the parasites growth. We evaluated the inferred interactions by analyzing the enriched biological processes and pathways in the predicted networks and their association to known parasitic invasion and evasion mechanisms. The resulting PPI networks were compared across parasites to identify common mechanisms that may define a global pathogenic hallmark. The predicted PPI networks can be visualized and downloaded at http://orthohpi.jensenlab.org.  Author Summary  A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network is a collection of interactions between proteins from one or more organisms. Hostparasite PPIs are key to understanding the biology of different parasitic diseases, since predicting PPIs enable to know more about the parasite invasion, infection and persist. Our understanding of PPIs between host and parasites is still very limited, as no many systematic experimental studies have so far been performed. Efficacy of treatments for parasitic diseases is limited and in many cases parasites evolve resistance. Thus, there is an urgent need to develop novel drugs or vaccines for these neglected diseases, and thus interest in the functions and interactions of proteins associated with parasitism processes. Here we developed an  in silico  method to shed light on the interactome in twelve human parasites by combining an orthology based strategy and integrating, domaindomain interaction data, sub-cellular localization and to give a spatial context, we only took in to account those human tissues that support the parasites tropism. Here we show that is possible to identify relevant interactions across different parasites and their human host and that these interactions are well supported based on the biology of the parasites.
 novel H7N9 avian influenza virus has caused five human epidemics in China since 2013. The substantial increase in prevalence and the emergence of antigenically divergent or highly pathogenic (HP) H7N9 strains during the current outbreak raises concerns about the epizootic-potential of these viruses. Here, we investigate the evolution and adaptation of H7N9 by combining publicly available data with newly generated virus sequences isolated in Guangdong between 2015-2017. Phylogenetic analyses show that currently-circulating H7N9 viruses belong to distinct lineages with differing spatial distributions. Using ancestral sequence reconstruction and structural modelling we have identified parallel amino-acid changes on multiple separate lineages. Furthermore, we infer mutations in HA primarily occur at sites involved in receptor-recognition and/or antigenicity. We also identify seven new HP strains, which likely emerged from viruses circulating in eastern Guangdong around March 2016 and is further associated with a high rate of adaptive molecular evolution.
The three-dimensional conformation of genomes is an essential component of their biological activity. The advent of the Hi-C technology enabled an unprecedented progress in our understanding of genome structures. However, Hi-C is subject to systematic biases that can compromise downstream analyses. Several strategies have been proposed to remove those biases, but the issue of abnormal karyotypes received little attention. Many experiments are performed in cancer cell lines, which typically harbor large-scale copy number variations that create visible defects on the raw Hi-C maps. The consequences of these widespread artifacts on the normalized maps are mostly unexplored. We observed that current normalization methods are not robust to the presence of large-scale copy number variations, potentially obscuring biological differences and enhancing batch effects. To address this issue, we developed an alternative approach designed to take into account chromosomal abnormalities. The method, called  OneD , increases reproducibility among replicates of Hi-C samples with abnormal karyotype, outperforming previous methods significantly. On normal karyotypes,  OneD  fared equally well as state-of-the-art methods, making it a safe choice for Hi-C normalization.  OneD  is fast and scales well in terms of computing resources for resolutions up to 1 kbp.  OneD  is implemented as an R package available at http://www.github.com/qenvio/dryhic.
The transcription factor Runx1 is essential for definitive hematopoiesis, and the  RUNX1  gene is frequently translocated or mutated in leukemia.  Runx1  is transcribed from two promoters, P1 and P2, to give rise to different protein isoforms. Although the expression of Runx1 must be tightly regulated for normal blood development, the mechanisms that regulate  Runx1  isoform expression during hematopoiesis remain poorly understood. Gene regulatory elements located in non-coding DNA are likely to be important for  Runx1  transcription. Here we use circular chromosome conformation capture sequencing to identify DNA interactions with the P1 and P2 promoters of  Runx1 , and the previously identified +24 enhancer, in the mouse multipotent hematopoietic progenitor cell line HPC-7. The active promoter, P1, interacts with nine non-coding regions that are occupied by transcription factors within a 1 Mb topologically associated domain. Eight of nine regions function as blood-specific enhancers in zebrafish. Interestingly, the +24 enhancer interacted with multiple distant regions on chromosome 16, indicating it may regulate the expression of additional genes. The  Runx1  DNA contact map identifies connections with multiple novel hematopoietic enhancers that are likely to be involved in regulating  Runx1  expression in hematopoietic progenitor cells.
The type VI secretion (T6S) system is a molecular device for the delivery of proteins from one cell into another. T6S function depends on the contractile sheath comprised of TssB/VipA and TssC/VipB proteins. We previously reported on a mutant variant of TssB that disrupts T6S-dependent export of the self-identity protein, IdsD, in the bacterium  Proteus mirabilis . Here we determined the mechanism underlying that initial observation. We show that T6S-dependent export of multiple self-recognition proteins is abrogated in this mutant strain. We have mapped the mutation, which is a single amino acid change, to a region predicted to be involved in the formation of the TssB-TssC sheath. We have demonstrated that this mutation does indeed inhibit sheath formation, thereby explaining the global disruption of T6S activity. We propose that this mutation could be utilized as an important tool for studying functions and behaviors associated with T6S systems.
he use of image data to quantify, study and compare variation in the colors and patterns of organisms requires the alignment of images to establish homology, followed by color-based segmentation of images. Here we describe an R package for image alignment and segmentation that has applications to quantify color patterns in a wide range of organisms.  patternize is an R package that quantifies variation in color patterns obtained from image data. patternize first defines homology between pattern positions across specimens either through manually placed homologous landmarks or automated image registration. Pattern identification is performed by categorizing the distribution of colors using an RGB threshold,  k -means clustering or watershed transformation.  We demonstrate that patternize can be used for quantification of the color patterns in a variety of organisms by analyzing image data for butterflies, guppies, spiders and salamanders. Image data can be compared between sets of specimens, visualized as heatmaps and analyzed using principal component analysis (PCA).  patternize has potential applications for fine scale quantification of color pattern phenotypes in population comparisons, genetic association studies and investigating the basis of color pattern variation across a wide range of organisms.
There are many examples where the use of chemicals have had profound unintended consequences, such as fertilizers reducing crop yields (paradox of enrichment) and insecticides increasing insect pests (by reducing natural biocontrol). Recently, the application of agrochemicals, such as agricultural disinfectants and fungicides, has been explored as an approach to curb the pathogenic fungus,  Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis  ( Bd ), which is associated with worldwide amphibian declines. However, the long-term, net effects of early-life exposure to these chemicals on amphibian disease risk have not been thoroughly investigated. Using a combination of laboratory experiments and analysis of data from the literature, we explored the effects of fungicide exposure on  Bd  infections in two frog species. Extremely low concentrations of the fungicides azoxystrobin, chlorothalonil, and mancozeb were directly toxic to  Bd  in culture. However, estimated environmental concentrations of the fungicides did not reduce  Bd  on Cuban tree frog ( Osteopilus septentrionalis ) tadpoles exposed simultaneously to any of these fungicides and  Bd , and fungicide exposure actually increased  Bd -induced mortality. Additionally, exposure to any of these fungicides as tadpoles resulted in higher  Bd  abundance and greater  Bd -induced mortality when challenged with  Bd  post-metamorphosis, an average of 71 days after their last fungicide exposure. Analysis of data from the literature revealed that previous exposure to the fungicide itraconazole, which is commonly used to clear  Bd  infections, made the critically endangered booroolong frog ( Litoria booroolongensis ) more susceptible to  Bd . Finally, a field survey revealed that  Bd  prevalence was positively associated with concentrations of fungicides in ponds. Although fungicides show promise for controlling  Bd , these results suggest that, if fungicides do not completely eliminate  Bd  or if  Bd  re-colonizes, exposure to fungicides has the potential to do more harm than good. To ensure that fungicide applications have the intended consequence of curbing amphibian declines, researchers must identify which fungicides do not compromise the pathogen resistance mechanisms of amphibians.
This paper uncovers a remarkable behavior in two biochemical systems that commonly appear as components of signal transduction pathways in systems biology. These systems have globally attracting steady states when unforced, so they might have been considered uninteresting from a dynamical standpoint. However, when subject to a periodic excitation, strange attractors arise via a period-doubling cascade. Quantitative analyses of the corresponding discrete chaotic trajectories are conducted numerically by computing largest Lyapunov exponents, power spectra, and autocorrelation functions. To gain insight into the geometry of the strange attractors, the phase portraits of the corresponding iterated maps are interpreted as scatter plots for which marginal distributions are additionally evaluated. The lack of entrainment to external oscillations, in even the simplest biochemical networks, represents a level of additional complexity in molecular biology, which has previously been insufficiently recognized but is plausibly biologically important.
Aim  This study aimed to investigate the analytical bias and imprecision in haematological parameters induced by storage at 4C, 22C and 33 C.  Methods  Three K 2 EDTA anticoagulated vials of blood were collected from each of twenty blood donors and stored at 4C, 22C and 33C respectively. Readings from each vial were taken at 0, 4, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours after collection on the Sysmex XP-100 analyser. The mean and median shift of the parameters relative to the baseline and the coefficient of variation for each time-temperature combination were calculated. The shift was compared to the maximum acceptable bias.  Results  Haemoglobin, Red Blood Cell Count, White Blood Cell Count, Mean Corpuscular Haemoglobin were stable for at least twenty four hours at 33C. Haematocrit, Mean Corpuscular Volume and Platelet Counts were stable for less than four hours at 33C. All the above parameters were stable for longer at 22C and 4C. The three-part differential count showed instability within four hours at 33 C.  Conclusions  Strict pre-analytical control is needed at 33C or above due to the marked instability of most parameters. However, Haemoglobin, Red Blood Cell Count, White Blood Cell Count and Mean Corpuscular Haemoglobin remain relatively stable even at 33C.  Key Message  Haematology samples exposed to temperatures of 33C or above show rapid change in MCV, HCT,MCHC, RDW, Platelet Counts and three-part differential counts. Settings where prolonged exposure to these temperatures cannot be avoided should rely on the more stable parameters of Haemoglobin, RBC Counts, MCH and WBC Counts.
hemia adversely affects the function of mitochondria, which results in impairment of oxidative phosphorylation and compromised recovery of the affected organ. The impact of ischemia on mitochondrial function has been most extensively studied in the heart because of the morbidity and mortality associated with injury to this organ. Because conventional methods to preserve cell viability and function following an ischemic injury are limited in their efficacy, we developed a unique approach to protect the heart by transplanting respiration-competent mitochondria isolated from a non-ischemic tissue to the ischemic region. Our experiments in animals have shown that transplantation of isolated mitochondria to injured heart tissue leads to decreases in cell death, increases in energy production, and improvements in contractile function. We also discovered that exogenously-derived mitochondria injected or perfused into ischemic hearts were readily internalized by cardiac cells through actin-dependent endocytosis. Here, we describe the use of three-dimensional super-resolution microscopy and transmission electron microscopy to determine the intracellular fate of exogenous mitochondria in non-dividing human iPS-derived cardiomyocytes and dividing primary human cardiac fibroblasts. We show isolated mitochondria are internalised in human cardiac cells within minutes and then transported to endosomes and lysosomes. The majority of exogenous mitochondria escape from these compartments and fuse with the endogenous mitochondrial network, while some organelles are degraded through hydrolysis. Understanding this process may guide the development of treatments directed at replacing or augmenting impaired mitochondria in ischemic tissues and provide new options to rejuvenate dysfunctional mitochondria in a wide range of human diseases and disorders.
Tissues are complex milieu consisting of numerous cell-types. Numerous recent methods attempt to enumerate cell subsets from transcriptomes. However, available method used limited source for training and displayed only partial portrayal of the full cellular landscape. Here we present  xCell , a novel gene-signature based method for inferring 64 immune and stroma cell-types. We harmonized 1,822 pure human cell-types transcriptomes from various sources, employed curve fitting approach for linear comparison of cell-types, and introduced a novel spillover compensation technique for separating between cell-types. Using extensive  in silico  analyses and comparison to cytometry immunophenotyping we show that  xCell  outperforms other methods: http://xCell.ucsf.edu/.
To build the spindle at mitosis, motors exert spatially regulated forces on microtubules. We know that dynein pulls on mammalian spindle microtubule minus-ends, and this localized activity at ends is predicted to allow dynein to cluster microtubules into poles. How dynein becomes enriched at minus-ends is not known. Here, we use quantitative imaging and laser ablation to show that NuMA targets dynactin to minus-ends, localizing dynein activity there. NuMA is recruited to new minus-ends independently of dynein and more quickly than dynactin, and both NuMA and dynactin display specific, steady-state binding at minus-ends. NuMA localization to minus-ends requires a C-terminal region outside NuMAs canonical microtubule binding domain, and it is independent of direct minus-end binders -TuRC, CAMSAP1, and KANSL1/3. Both NuMAs minus-end-binding and dynein-dynactin-binding modules are required to rescue focused, bipolar spindle organization. Thus, NuMA may serve as a mitosis-specific minus-end cargo adaptor, targeting dynein activity to minus-ends to cluster spindle microtubules into poles.
pped 76 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and type 1 diabetes (T1D) loci outside of the MHC. After sequencing 799 1kb regulatory (H3K4me3) regions within these loci in 568 individuals, we observed accurate imputation for 89% of common variants. We fine-mapped 1,2  these loci in RA (11,475 cases, 15,870 controls) 3 , T1D (9,334 cases and 11,111 controls)  4  and combined datasets. We reduced the number of potential causal variants to 5 in 8 RA and 11 T1D loci. We identified causal missense variants in five loci ( DNASE1L3 ,  SIRPG ,  PTPN22 ,  SH2B3  and  TYK2)  and likely causal non-coding variants in six loci ( MEG3, TNFAIP3, CD28 / CTLA4 ,  ANKRD55 ,  IL2RA ,  REL / PUS10 ). Functional analysis confirmed allele specific binding and differential enhancer activity for three variants: the  CD28/CTLA4  rs117701653 SNP, the  TNFAIP3  rs35926684 indel, and the  MEG3  rs34552516 indel. This study demonstrates the potential for dense genotyping and imputation to pinpoint missense and non-coding causal alleles.
To optimize fitness a plant should monitor its metabolism to appropriately control growth and defense. Primary metabolism can be measured by the universally conserved TOR (Target of Rapamycin) pathway to balance growth and development with the available energy and nutrients. Recent work suggests that plants may measure defense metabolites to potentially provide a strategy ensuring fast reallocation of resources to coordinate plant growth and defense. There is little understanding of mechanisms enabling defense metabolite signaling. To identify mechanisms of defense metabolite signaling, we used glucosinolates, an important class of plant defense metabolites. We report novel signaling properties specific to one distinct glucosinolate, 3- hydroxypropyl glucosinolate across plants and fungi. This defense metabolite, or derived compounds, reversibly inhibits root growth and development. 3-hydroxypropyl glucosinolate signaling functions via genes in the ancient TOR pathway. Thus, plants might link evolutionarily new defense metabolites to ancient signaling pathways to optimize energy allocation.
To understand how genomic heterogeneity of glioblastoma (GBM) contributes to the poor response to therapy, which is characteristic of this disease, we performed DNA and RNA sequencing on GBM tumor samples and the neurospheres and orthotopic xenograft models derived from them. We used the resulting data set to show that somatic driver alterations including single nucleotide variants, focal DNA alterations, and oncogene amplification in extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) elements were in majority propagated from tumor to model systems. In several instances, ecDNAs and chromosomal alterations demonstrated divergent inheritance patterns and clonal selection dynamics during cell culture and xenografting. Longitudinal patient tumor profiling showed that oncogenic ecDNAs are frequently retained after disease recurrence. Our analysis shows that extrachromosomal elements increase the genomic heterogeneity during tumor evolution of glioblastoma, independent of chromosomal DNA alterations.
Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a transmembrane protein expressed on microglia within the brain. Several rare mutations in  TREM2  cause an early-onset form of neurodegeneration when inherited homozygously. Here we investigate how these mutations affect the intracellular transport of TREM2. We find that most pathogenic TREM2 mutant proteins fail to undergo normal maturation in the Golgi complex and show markedly reduced cell surface expression. Prior research has suggested that two such mutants are retained in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), but we find, using a cell-free COPII vesicle budding reaction, that mutant TREM2 is exported efficiently from the ER. In addition, mutant TREM2 becomes sensitive to cleavage by endoglycosidase D under conditions that inhibit recycling to the ER, indicating that it normally reaches a post-ER compartment. Maturation-defective TREM2 mutants are also efficiently bound by a lectin that recognizes  O -glycans added in the ERGolgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) and  cis  Golgi cisterna. Finally, mutant TREM2 accumulates in the ERGIC in cells depleted of COPI. These results indicate that efficient ER export is not sufficient to enable normal cell surface expression of TREM2. Moreover, our findings suggest that the ERGIC may play an underappreciated role as a quality-control center for mutant and/or malformed membrane proteins.
Type II Diabetes (T2DM) dramatically impairs the tendon healing response, resulting in decreased collagen organization and mechanics relative to non-diabetic tendons. Despite this burden, there remains a paucity of information regarding the mechanisms that govern impaired healing of diabetic tendons.  Mice were placed on either a high fat diet (T2DM) or low fat diet (lean) and underwent flexor tendon transection and repair surgery. Healing was assessed via mechanical testing, histology and changes in gene expression associated with collagen synthesis, matrix remodeling, and macrophage polarization. Obese/diabetic tendons healed with increased scar formation and impaired mechanical properties. Consistent with this, prolonged and excess expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) components were observed in obese/T2DM tendons. Macrophages are involved in both inflammatory and matrix deposition processes during healing. Obese/T2DM tendons healed with increased expression of markers of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, and elevated and prolonged expression of M2 macrophages markers that are involved in ECM deposition. Here we demonstrate that tendons from obese/diabetic mice heal with increased scar formation and increased M2 polarization, identifying excess M2 macrophage activity and matrix synthesis as a potential mechanism of the fibrotic healing phenotype observed in T2DM tendons, and as such a potential target to improve tendon healing in T2DM.
Type VII secretion systems (T7SS) are found in many bacteria and secrete proteins involved in virulence and bacterial competition. In  Staphylococcus aureus  the small ubiquitin-like EsaB protein has been previously implicated as having a regulatory role in the production of the EsxC substrate. Here we show that in the  S. aureus  RN6390 strain, EsaB does not genetically regulate production of any T7 substrates or components, but is indispensable for secretion activity. Consistent with EsaB being a core component of the T7SS, loss of either EsaB or EssC are associated with upregulation of a common set of iron acquisition genes. However, a further subset of genes were dysregulated only in the absence of EsaB. In addition, fractionation revealed that although an EsaB fusion to yellow fluorescent protein partially localised to the membrane, it was still membrane-localised when the T7SS was absent. Taken together our findings suggest that EsaB has T7SS-dependent and T7SS-independent roles in  S. aureus .
Direct measurement of functional effects of DNA sequence variants throughout a genome is a major challenge. We developed a method that uses CRISPR/Cas9 to engineer many specific variants of interest in parallel in the budding yeast  Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and to screen them for functional effects. We used the method to examine the functional consequences of premature termination codons (PTCs) at different locations within all annotated essential genes in yeast. We found that most PTCs were highly deleterious unless they occurred close to the C-terminal end and did not interrupt an annotated protein domain. Surprisingly, we discovered that some putatively essential genes are dispensable, while others have large dispensable regions. This approach can be used to profile the effects of large classes of variants in a high-throughput manner.
Understanding the relationship between neural and vascular signals is essential for interpretation of functional MRI (fMRI) results with respect to underlying neuronal activity. Simultaneously measuring neural activity using electrophysiology with fMRI has been highly valuable in elucidating the neural basis of the blood oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) signal. However, this approach is also technically challenging due to the electromagnetic interference that is observed in electrophysiological recordings during MRI scanning. Recording optical correlates of neural activity, such as calcium signals, avoids this issue, and has opened a new avenue to simultaneously acquire neural and BOLD signals. The present study is the first to demonstrate the feasibility of simultaneously and repeatedly acquiring calcium and BOLD signals in animals using a genetically encoded calcium indicator, GCaMP6. This approach was validated with a visual stimulation experiment, during which robust increases of both calcium and BOLD signals in the superior colliculus were observed. In addition, repeated measurement in the same animal demonstrated reproducible calcium and BOLD responses to the same stimuli. Taken together, simultaneous GCaMP6-based fiber photometry and fMRI recording presents a novel, artifact-free approach to simultaneously measuring neural and fMRI signals. Furthermore, given the cell-type specificity of GCaMP6, this approach has the potential to mechanistically dissect the contributions of individual neuron populations with respect to BOLD signal, and ultimately reveal its underlying neural mechanisms.
Using genotype data to perform accurate genetic prediction of complex traits can facilitate genomic selection in animal and plant breeding programs, and can aid in the development of personalized medicine in humans. Because most complex traits have a polygenic architecture, accurate genetic prediction often requires modeling all genetic variants together via polygenic methods. Here, we develop such a polygenic method, which we refer to as the latent Dirichlet process regression model (DPR). DPR is non-parametric in nature, relies on the Dirichlet process to flexibly and adaptively model the effect size distribution, and thus enjoys robust prediction performance across a broad spectrum of genetic architectures. We compare DPR with several commonly used prediction methods with simulations. We further apply DPR to predict gene expressions, to conduct PrediXcan based gene set test, to perform genomic selection of four traits in two species, and to predict eight complex traits in a human cohort.
Vancomycin-resistant  Enterococcus faecium  (VREfm) are critical public health concerns because they are among the leading causes of hospital-acquired bloodstream infections. Chlorhexidine (CHX) is a bisbiguanide cationic antiseptic that is routinely used for patient bathing and other infection control practices. VREfm are likely frequently exposed to CHX; however, the long-term effects of CHX exposure have not been studied in enterococci. In this study, we serially exposed VREfm to increasing concentrations of CHX for a period of 21 days in two independent experimental evolution trials. Reduced CHX susceptibility emerged (4-fold shift in CHX MIC). Sub-populations with reduced daptomycin (DAP) susceptibility were detected, which were further analyzed by genome sequencing and lipidomic analysis. Across the trials, we identified adaptive changes in genes with predicted or experimentally confirmed roles in chlorhexidine susceptibility ( efrE ), global nutritional stress response ( relA ), nucleotide metabolism ( cmk ), phosphate acquisition ( phoU ), and glycolipid biosynthesis ( bgsB ), among others. Moreover, significant alterations in membrane phospholipids were identified. Our results are clinically significant because they identify a link between serial sub-inhibitory CHX exposure and reduced DAP susceptibility. In addition, the CHX-induced genetic and lipidomic changes described in this study offer new insights into the mechanisms underlying the emergence of antibiotic resistance in VREfm.
Variability in drug efficacy and adverse effects are observed in clinical practice. While the extent of genetic variability in classical pharmacokinetic genes is rather well understood, the role of genetic variation in drug targets is typically less studied. Based on 60,706 human exomes from the ExAC dataset, we performed an in-depth computational analysis of the prevalence of functional-variants in in 806 drug-related genes, including 628 known drug targets. We find that most genetic variants in these genes are very rare (f &amp;lt; 0.1%) and thus likely not observed in clinical trials. Overall, however, four in five patients are likely to carry a functional-variant in a target for commonly prescribed drugs and many of these might alter drug efficacy. We further computed the likelihood of 1,236 FDA approved drugs to be affected by functional-variants in their targets and show that the patient-risk varies for many drugs with respect to geographic ancestry. A focused analysis of oncological drug targets indicates that the probability of a patient carrying germline variants in oncological drug targets is with 44% high enough to suggest that not only somatic alterations, but also germline variants carried over into the tumor genome should be included in therapeutic decision-making.
Ventilator-Induced lung injury (VILI) is a form of acute lung injury that is initiated or exacerbated by mechanical ventilation. The aging lung is more susceptible to lung injury. Harmful mechanical stretch of the alveolar epithelium is a recognized mechanism of VILI, yet little is known about how mechanical stretch affects aged epithelial cells. An activated response known as Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) Stress occurs at the cellular level, which is increased with aging. The disrupted ER function results in disruption in cellular homeostasis, apoptosis, and inflammation. We hypothesized that age and mechanical stretch increase proinflammatory gene expression that is mediated by ER stress. Type II alveolar epithelial cells (ATII) were harvested from C57Bl6/J mice 8 weeks (young) and 20 months (old) of age. The cells were cyclically mechanically stretched at 15% change in surface area for up to 24 hours. Prior to stretch, groups were administered 4-PBA or vehicle as a control. Mechanical stretch upregulated both ER stress and proinflammatory gene expression in ATIIs. Age-matched and mis-matched monocyte recruitment by ATII conditioned media was quantified. Administration of 4-PBA attenuated both the ER stress and proinflammatory increases from stretch and/or age and significantly reduced monocyte migration to ATII conditioned media. Age increases susceptibility to stretch-induced ER stress and downstream inflammation in a primary ATII epithelial cell model.
Background  The natural environment serves as a potential reservoir for  Campylobacter,  the leading cause of bacterial gastroenteritis in humans. However, little is understood about the mechanisms underlying variations in survival characteristics between different strains of  C. jejuni  in natural environments, including water.  Results  We identified three  Campylobacter jejuni  strains that exhibited variability in their ability to retain culturability after suspension in water at two different temperatures (4C and 25C). Of the three, strains  C. jejuni  M1 exhibited the most rapid loss of culturability whilst retaining viability. Using RNAseq transcriptomics, we characterised C.  jejuni  M1 gene expression in response to suspension in water by analyzing bacterial suspensions recovered immediately after introduction into water (Time 0), and from two sampling time/temperature combinations where considerable loss of culturability was evident, namely (i) after 24 h at 25C, and (ii) after 72 h at 4C. Transcript data were compared with a culture-grown control. Some gene expression characteristics were shared amongst the three populations recovered from water, with more genes being up-regulated than down. Many of the up-regulated genes were identified in the Time 0 sample, whereas the majority of down-regulated genes occurred in the 25C (24 h) sample.  Conclusions  Variations in expression were found amongst genes associated with oxygen tolerance, starvation and osmotic stress. However, we also found upregulation of flagellar assembly genes, accompanied by down-regulation of genes involved in chemotaxis. Our data also suggested a switch from secretion via the  sec  system to via the  tat  system, and that the quorum sensing gene  luxS  may be implicated in the survival of strain M1 in water. Variations in gene expression also occurred in accessory genome regions. Our data suggest that despite the loss of culturability,  C. jejuni  M1 remains viable and adapts via specific changes in gene expression.
volution of rapid epigenetic research, Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation BeadChips have been widely used to study DNA methylation. However, in evaluating the accuracy of this method, we found that the commonly used Illumina HumanMethylation BeadChips are substantially affected by positional effects; the DNA samples location in a chip affects the measured methylation levels. We analyzed three HumanMethylation450 and three HumanMethylation27 datasets by using four methods to prove the existence of positional effects. Three datasets were analyzed further for technical replicate analysis or differential methylation CpG sites analysis. The pre- and post-correction comparisons indicate that the positional effects could alter the measured methylation values and downstream analysis results. Nevertheless,  ComBat , linear regression and functional normalization could all be used to minimize such artifact. We recommend performing  ComBat  to correct positional effects followed by the correction of batch effects in data preprocessing as this procedure slightly outperforms the others. In addition, randomizing the sample placement should be a critical laboratory practice for using such experimental platforms. Code for our method is freely available at: https://github.com/ChuanJ/posibatch.
We are moving into the age of Big Data in biomedical research and bioinformatics. This trend could be encapsulated in this simple formula: D = S  F, where the volume of data generated (D) increases in both dimensions: the number of samples (S) and the number of sample features (F). Frequently, a typical bioinformatics problem (e.g. classification) includes redundant and irrelevant features that can result, in the worst-case scenario, in false positive results. Then, Feature Selection (FS) constitutes an enormous challenge. Despite the number and diversity of algorithms available, the proper choice of an approach for facing a specific problem often falls in a grey zone. In this study, we select a subset of FS methods to develop an efficient workflow and an R package for bioinformatics machine learning problems. We cover relevant issues concerning FS, ranging from domains problems to algorithm solutions and computational tools. Finally, we use seven different proteomics and gene expression datasets to evaluate the workflow and guide the FS process.
We characterize different tumour types in the search for multi-tumour drug targets, in particular aiming for drug repurposing or novel drug combinations. Starting from 11 tumour types from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we obtain three clusters based on transcriptomic correlation profiles. A network-based analysis, integrating gene expression profiles and protein interactions of cancer-related genes, allowed us to define three cluster-specific signatures, with genes belonging to NF-B signaling, chromosomal instability, ubiquitin-proteasome system, DNA metabolism, and apoptosis biological processes. These signatures have been characterized by different approaches based on mutational, pharmacological and clinical evidences, demonstrating the validity of our selection. Moreover, we defined new pharmacological strategies validated by  in vitro  experiments that showed inhibition of cell growth in two tumour cell lines, with significant synergistic effect. Our study thus provides a list of genes and pathways with the potential to be used, singularly or in combination, for the design of novel treatment strategies.
We experimentally and numerically investigate the evolutionary dynamics of four competing strains of  E. coli  with differing expansion velocities in radially expanding colonies. We compare experimental measurements of the average fraction, correlation functions between strains, and the relative rates of genetic domain wall annihilations and coalescences to simulations modeling the population as a one-dimensional ring of annihilating and coalescing random walkers with deterministic biases due to selection. The simulations reveal that the evolutionary dynamics can be collapsed onto master curves governed by three essential parameters: (1) an expansion length beyond which selection dominates over genetic drift; (2) a characteristic angular correlation describing the size of genetic domains; and (3) a dimensionless constant quantifying the interplay between a colonys curvature at the frontier and its selection length scale. We measure these parameters with a new technique that precisely measures small selective differences between spatially competing strains and show that our simulations accurately predict the dynamics with no additional fitting. Our results suggest that that the random walk model can act as a useful predictive tool when describing the evolutionary dynamics of range expansions composed of an arbitrary number of competing alleles with different fitnesses.  Author summary  Population expansions occur naturally during the spread of invasive species and have played a role in our evolutionary history when many of our ancestors expanded out of Africa. We use a colony of bacteria expanding into unoccupied, nutrient-rich territory on an agar plate as a model system to explore how an expanding populations spatial structure impacts its evolutionary dynamics. Spatial structure is present in expanding microbial colonies because daughter cells migrate only a small distance away from their mothers each generation. Generally, the constituents of expansions occurring in nature and in the lab have different genetic compositions (genotypes, or alleles if a single gene differs), each instilling different fitnesses, which compete to proliferate at the frontier. Here, we show that a random-walk model can accurately predict the dynamics of four expanding strains of  E. coli  with different fitnesses; each strain represents a competing allele. Our results can be extended to describe any number of competing genotypes with different fitnesses in a naturally occurring expansions. Our model can also be used to precisely measure small selective differences between spatially competing genotypes in controlled laboratory settings.
We introduce BPG, an easy-to-use framework for generating publication-quality, highly-customizable plots in the R statistical environment. This open-source package includes novel methods of displaying high-dimensional datasets and facilitates generation of complex multi-panel figures, making it ideal for complex datasets. A web-based interactive tool allows online figure customization, from which R code can be downloaded for seamless integration with computational pipelines. BPG is available at http://labs.oicr.on.ca/boutros-lab/software/bpg
Here we present a novel method: single-cell combinatorial indexing for methylation analysis (sci-MET), which is the first highly scalable assay for whole genome methylation profiling of single cells. We use sci-MET to produce 2,697 total single-cell bisulfite sequencing libraries and achieve read alignment rates of 69  7%, comparable to those of bulk cell methods. As a proof of concept, we applied sci-MET to successfully deconvolve the cellular identity of a mixture of three human cell lines.
We present a low-dimensional morphospace of fMRI brain networks, where axes are defined in a data-driven manner based on the network motifs. The morphospace allows us to identify the key variations in healthy fMRI networks in terms of their underlying motifs and we observe that two principal components (PCs) can account for 97% of the motif variability. The first PC corresponds to the small-world axis and correlates strongly with the networks global efficiency. There is also some evidence that PC1 correlates with the average length of the 5% of longest edges in the network. Hence this axis represents the trade-off between the cost of long distance edges and their topological benefits. The second PC correlates with the networks assortativity. Finally, we show that the economical clustering generative model proposed by Vrtes et al. can approximately reproduce the motif PC space of the real fMRI brain networks, in contrast to other generative models. Overall, the motif morphospace provides a powerful way to visualise the relationships between network properties and to study the driving forces behind the topology of fMRI brain networks.
We present an ultra-fast method for comparing personal genomes. We transform the standard genome representation (lists of variants relative to a reference) into genome fingerprints that can be readily compared across sequencing technologies and reference versions. Because of their reduced size, computation on the genome fingerprints is fast and requires little memory. This enables scaling up a variety of important genome analyses, including quantifying relatedness, recognizing duplicative sequenced genomes in a set, population reconstruction, and many others. The original genome representation cannot be reconstructed from its fingerprint; the method thus has significant implications for privacy-preserving genome analytics.
We project the long term incidence of Zika virus disease (ZVD) under varying hazards of infection and consider how the age-distribution of disease burden varies between these scenarios. Pathogens with age-structured disease outcomes, such as rubella and Zika virus, require that management decisions consider their impact not only on total disease incidence but also on distribution of disease burden within a population. In some cases, reductions of overall transmission can have the paradoxical effect of increasing the incidence of severe disease despite decreasing the total incidence. This happens because of corresponding increases in the average age of infection. Beginning with the current population structure and demographic rates of Brazil, we project forward total ZVD burden as measured by cases occurring in pregnant women and document the scenarios under which a paradox of control for Zika management emerges. We conclude that while a paradox of control can occur for ZVD, the higher total costs from increasing the average age of infection will only be realized after several decades and vanish under conservative discounting of future costs. This indicates that managers faced with an emerging pathogen should prioritize current disease incidence over potential increases in severe disease outcomes in the endemic state.  Author Summary  The intuitive response to an emerging outbreak is to halt, or at least reduce, transmission. However, in some circumstances, reducing overall transmission and incidence may be counterproductive from a public health perspective as public health interventions affect both the total level and the distribution of disease burden. We consider the scenarios under which reducing transmission of an emerging pathogen such as Zika virus may increase the costs associated with disease in the most vulnerable segments of the population - in this case, reproductive-age women. We conclude that after applying standard discounting rates to future cases, the paradox of control vanishes and reducing hazard of infection uniformly reduces the total costs associated with severe disease.
We provide evidence that decisions are made by consulting memories for individual past experiences, and that this process can be biased in favor of past choices using incidental reminders. First, in a standard rewarded choice task, we show that a model that estimates value at decision-time using individual samples of past outcomes fits choices and decision-related neural activity better than a canonical incremental learning model. In a second experiment, we bias this sampling process by incidentally reminding participants of individual past decisions. The next decision after a reminder shows a strong influence of the action taken and value received on the reminded trial. These results provide new empirical support for a decision architecture that relies on samples of individual past choice episodes rather than incrementally averaged rewards in evaluating options, and has suggestive implications for the underlying cognitive and neural mechanisms.
We show that deep convolutional neural networks combined with non-linear dimension reduction enable reconstructing biological processes based on raw image data. We demonstrate this by recon-structing the cell cycle of Jurkat cells and disease progression in diabetic retinopathy. In further analysis of Jurkat cells, we detect and separate a subpopulation of dead cells in an unsupervised manner and, in classifying discrete cell cycle stages, we reach a 6-fold reduction in error rate compared to a recent approach based on boosting on image features. In contrast to previous methods, deep learning based predictions are fast enough for on-the-fly analysis in an imaging flow cytometer.
hen using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) to perform untargeted metabolomics, it is now routine to detect tens of thousands of features from biological samples. Poor understanding of the data, however, has complicated interpretation and masked the number of unique metabolites actually being measured in an experiment. Here we place an upper bound on the number of unique metabolites detected in  Escherichia coli  samples analyzed with one untargeted metabolomic method. We first group multiple features arising from the same analyte, which we call degenerate features, using a context-driven annotation approach. Surprisingly, this analysis revealed thousands of previously unreported degeneracies that reduced the number of unique analytes to ~2,961. We then applied an orthogonal approach to remove non-biological features from the data by using the  13 C-based credentialing technology. This further reduced the number of unique analytes to less than 1,000.
While cholinergic receptor activation has long been known to dramatically enhance the excitability of cortical neurons, the cellular mechanisms responsible for this effect are not well understood. We used intracellular recordings in rat neocortical brain slices to assess the ionic mechanisms supporting persistent firing modes triggered by depolarizing stimuli following cholinergic receptor activation. We found multiple lines of evidence suggesting that a component of the underlying hyperexcitability associated with persistent firing reflects a reduction in the standing (leak) K +  current mediated by Ether--go-go-Related Gene (ERG) channels. Three chemically diverse ERG channel blockers (terfenadine, ErgToxin-1, and E-4031) abolished persistent firing and the underlying increase in input resistance in deep pyramidal cells in temporal and prefrontal association neocortex. Calcium accumulation during triggering stimuli appear to attenuate ERG currents, leading to membrane potential depolarization and increased input resistance, two critical elements generating persistent firing. Our results also suggest that ERG current normally governs cortical neuron responses to depolarizing stimuli by opposing prolonged discharges and by enhancing the post-stimulus repolarization. The broad expression of ERG channels and the ability of ERG blocks to abolish persistent firing evoked by both synaptic and intracellular step stimuli suggests modulation of ERG channels may underlie many forms of persistent activity observed in vivo.
While tumor genome sequencing has become widely available in clinical and research settings, the interpretation of tumor somatic variants remains an important bottleneck. Most of the alterations observed in tumors, including those in well-known cancer genes, are of uncertain significance. Moreover, the information on tumor genomic alterations shaping the response to existing therapies is fragmented across the literature and several specialized resources. Here we present the Cancer Genome Interpreter (http://www.cancergenomeinterpreter.org), an open access tool that we have implemented to annotate genomic alterations and interpret their possible role in tumorigenesis and in the response to anti-cancer therapies.
Whole genome duplications (WGD) are important evolutionary events. Our understanding of underlying mechanisms, including the evolution of duplicated genes after WGD, however remains incomplete. Teleost fish experienced a common WGD (teleost-specific genome duplication, or TGD) followed by a dramatic adaptive radiation leading to more than half of all vertebrate species. The analysis of gene expression patterns following TGD at the genome level has been limited by the lack of suitable genomic resources. The recent concomitant release of the genome sequence of spotted gar (a representative of holosteans, the closest lineage of teleosts that lacks the TGD) and the tissue-specific gene expression repertoires of over 20 holostean and teleostean fish species, including spotted gar, zebrafish and medaka (the PhyloFish project), offered a unique opportunity to study the evolution of gene expression following TGD in teleosts. We show that most TGD duplicates gained their current status (loss of one duplicate gene or retention of both duplicates) relatively rapidly after TGD (i.e. prior to the divergence of medaka and zebrafish lineages). The loss of one duplicate is the most common fate after TGD with a probability of approximately 80%. In addition, the fate of duplicate genes after TGD, including subfunctionalization, neofunctionalization, or retention of two similar copies occurred not only before, but also after the radiation of species tested, in consistency with a role of the TGD in speciation and/or evolution of gene function. Finally, we report novel cases of TGD ohnolog subfunctionalization and neofunctionalization that further illustrate the importance of these processes.
With few exceptions, the marked advances in knowledge about the genetic basis for schizophrenia have not converged on findings that can be confidently used for precise experimental modeling. Applying knowledge of the cellular taxonomy of the brain from single-cell RNA-sequencing, we evaluated whether the genomic loci implicated in schizophrenia map onto specific brain cell types. The common variant genomic results consistently mapped to pyramidal cells, medium spiny neurons, and certain interneurons but far less consistently to embryonic, progenitor, or glial cells. These enrichments were due to distinct sets of genes specifically expressed in each of these cell types. Many of the diverse gene sets associated with schizophrenia (including antipsychotic targets) implicate the same brain cell types. Our results provide a parsimonious explanation: the common-variant genetic results for schizophrenia point at a limited set of neurons, and the gene sets point to the same cells. While some of the genetic risk is associated with GABAergic interneurons, this risk largely does not overlap with that from projecting cells.
Stochastic variations in the transcription factor target gene network influences the dynamics of protein levels. The mathematical model built, here, is useful to study the cytokine response and the resulting dynamical patterns in leishmaniasis. The fluctuations produced affect the expression rate of its target in the regulatory synthetic circuit designed by means of a negative feedback loop insertion. Thus, the faster the response time, smaller is the fluctuation of the system observed and it can be justified that the TFTG network embedded can be understood with the recurring dynamics of the designed synthetic circuit.  List of Abbreviations  TF: transcription factor  PPAR: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-  FAs: fatty acids  DCs: dendritic cells  TFTG network: Transcription Factor Target Gene Network  IFNg: interferon g  VL: visceral leishmaniasis  CL: cutaneous leishmaniasis  G-MCF: granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor  IL: interleukin  PKC: Protein Kinase C  PBC: Periodic boundary condition  NPT: Normal Pressure temperature  NVT: Normal Volume Temperature  MD: Molecular Dynamics  RMSD: root mean square deviation  RMSF: root mean square fluctuation  LB: Luria Berttini  I: Infection  CT: Chimeric PKC  CTI: Chimeric PKC + Infection  CTM: Chimeric PKC + Miltefosine  CTIM: Chimeric PKC + Infection + Miltefosine  CC: Closeness centrality  IPTG: Isopropyl -D-1-thiogalactopyranoside
With the proliferation of multi-site neuroimaging studies, there is a greater need for handling non-biological variance introduced by differences in MRI scanners and acquisition protocols. Such unwanted sources of variation, which we refer to as scanner effects, can hinder the detection of imaging features associated with clinical covariates of interest and cause spurious findings. In this paper, we investigate scanner effects in two large multi-site studies on cortical thickness measurements, across a total of 11 scanners. We propose a set of general tools for visualizing and identifying scanner effects that are generalizable to other modalities. We then propose to use ComBat, a technique adopted from the genomics literature and recently applied to diffusion tensor imaging data, to combine and harmonize cortical thickness values across scanners. We show that ComBat removes unwanted sources of scan variability while simultaneously increasing the power and reproducibility of subsequent statistical analyses. We also show that ComBat is useful for combining imaging data with the goal of studying life-span trajectories in the brain.
Genomes are vulnerable to selfish genetic elements that enhance their own transmission often at the expense of host fitness. Examples are cytoplasmic elements such as maternally inherited bacteria that cause feminization, male-killing, parthenogenesis and cytoplasmic incompatibility. We demonstrate, for the first time, that segregation distortion, a phenomenon so far seen only for nuclear genetic elements, can also be caused by a cytoplasmic element, the ubiquitous endosymbiotic bacterium  Wolbachia . For  Eurema mandarina  butterfly lineages with a Z0 sex chromosome constitution, we provide direct and conclusive evidence that  Wolbachia  induces production of all-female progeny by a dual role: the compensation for the female-determining function that is absent in Z0 lineages (feminization) and the prevention of maternal sex chromosome inheritance to offspring as a specific type of segregation distortion. Therefore, our findings highlight that both sex determination and chromosome inheritance  crucially important developmental processes of higher eukaryotes  can be manipulated by cytoplasmic parasites.
Y chromosome function, structure and evolution is poorly understood in many species including the  Anopheles  genus of mosquitoes, an emerging model system for studying speciation that also represents the major vectors of malaria. While the Anopheline Y had previously been implicated in male mating behavior, recent data from the  Anopheles gambiae  complex suggests that, apart from the putative primary sex-determiner, no other genes are conserved on the Y. Studying the functional basis of the evolutionary divergence of the Y chromosome in the gambiae complex is complicated by complete F1 male hybrid sterility. Here we used an F1xF0 crossing scheme to overcome a severe bottleneck of male hybrid incompatibilities and enabled us to experimentally purify a genetically labelled  A. gambiae  Y chromosome in an  A. arabiensis  background. Whole genome sequencing confirmed that the  A. gambiae  Y retained its original sequence content in the  A. arabiensis  genomic background. In contrast to comparable experiments in  Drosophila , we find that the presence of a heterospecific Y chromosome has no significant effect on the expression of  A. arabiensis  genes and transcriptional differences can be explained almost exclusively as a direct consequence of transcripts arising from sequence elements present on the  A. gambiae  Y chromosome itself. We find that Y hybrids show no obvious fertility defects and no substantial reduction in male competitiveness. Our results demonstrate that, despite their radically different structure, Y chromosomes of these two species of the gambiae complex that diverged an estimated 1.85Myr ago function interchangeably, thus indicating that the Y chromosome does not harbor loci contributing to hybrid incompatibility. Therefore, Y chromosome gene flow between members of the gambiae complex is possible even at their current level of divergence. Importantly, this also suggests that malaria control interventions based on sex-distorting Y drive would be transferable, whether intentionally or contingent, between the major malaria vector species.
 Yersinia pseudotuberculosis  is a Gram negative intestinal pathogen of humans and has been responsible for several nation-wide gastro-intestinal outbreaks. Large-scale population genomic studies have been performed on the other human pathogenic  Yersinia, Y. pestis  and  Y. enterocolitica  allowing a high-resolution understanding of the ecology, evolution and dissemination of these pathogens. However, to date no large-scale global population genomic analysis of  Y. pseudotuberculosis  has been performed. Here we present analyses of the genomes of 134 strains of  Y. pseudotuberculosis  isolated from around the world, from multiple ecosystems since 1960s. Our data display a phylogeographic split within the population, with an Asian ancestry and subsequent dispersal of successful clonal lineages into Europe and the rest of the world. These lineages can be differentiated by CRISPR cluster arrays, and we show that the lineages are limited with respect to inter-lineage genetic exchange. This restriction of genetic exchange maintains the discrete lineage structure in the population despite co-existence of lineages for thousands of years in multiple countries. Our data highlights how CRISPR can be informative of the evolutionary trajectory of bacterial lineages, and merits further study across bacteria.
 curatedMetagenomicData, a Bioconductor and command-line interface to thousands of metagenomic profiles from the Human Microbiome Project and other publicly available datasets, and ExperimentHub, a platform for convenient cloud-based distribution of data to the R desktop. The resource provides standardized per-participant metadata linked to bacterial, fungal, archaeal, and viral taxonomic abundances, as well as quantitative metabolic functional profiles. The datasets can be immediately analyzed in R or other software with a minimum of bioinformatic expertise and no preprocessing of data. We demonstrate identification of taxonomic/functional correlations, an investigation of gut enterotypes, and a comparison of the accuracy of disease classification from different data types. These documented analyses can be reproduced efficiently on a laptop, without the barriers of working with large-scale, raw sequencing data. The building and expansion of curatedMetagenomicData is based entirely on open source software and pipelines, to facilitate the addition of new microbiome datasets and methods.
eractions are crucial to the survival and well-being of all mammals, including humans. Although the prelimbic cortex (PL, part of medial prefrontal cortex) has been implicated in social behavior, it is not clear which neurons are relevant, nor how they contribute. We found that the PL contains anatomically and molecularly distinct subpopulations of neurons that target 3 downstream regions that have been implicated in social behavior: the nucleus accumbens (NAc), the amygdala, and the ventral tegmental area. Activation of NAc-projecting PL neurons (PL-NAc), but not the other subpopulations, decreased preference for a social target, suggesting an unique contribution of this population to social behavior. To determine what information PL-NAc neurons convey, we recorded selectively from them, and found that individual neurons were active during social investigation, but only in specific spatial locations. Spatially-specific inhibition of these neurons prevented the formation of a social-spatial association at the inhibited location. In contrast, spatially nonspecific inhibition did not affect social behavior. Thus, the unexpected combination of social and spatial information within the PL-NAc population appears to support socially motivated behavior by enabling the formation of social-spatial associations.
We previously reported the equilibrium dimerization reaction of the CLC-ec1 Cl - /H +  transporter in 2:1 POPE/POPG membranes (Chadda et al. 2016). This was determined by measuring the probability distributions of subunit capture into extruded liposomes by single-molecule photobleaching analysis across a wide range of subunit/lipid mole fraction densities. In this approach, knowledge of the liposome size distribution is necessary in order to correct the data for random co-capture events and extract the underlying dimerization reaction. For this we used a previously reported cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) measured size distribution of 400 nm extruded liposomes made of  E. coli  polar lipids (Walden et al. 2007). While the model and data agreed at low densities, we observed systematic inaccuracies at higher densities limiting our ability to extract  F Dimer   in this range. To address this issue, we measured the 400 nm extruded 2:1 POPE/POPG liposome size distribution by cryo-EM and found that there is a small, but significant amount of larger liposomes in the population. Re-analysis of the I201W/I422W WW photobleaching data using this distribution shows that the protein is monomeric in the membrane and can serve as an experimental control. Dimer controls were constructed by glutaraldehyde cross-linking of C85A/H234C WT or introducing R230C/L249C, which forms a spontaneous disulfide bond. Determination of  F Dimer   based on the experimental controls yields improved fits and no change in the previously reported  G  values, providing an alternate model-free approach to measuring CLC-ec1 dimerization in membranes.
Coordinated uterine contractions at the end of gestation are essential for delivering viable offspring in mammals. Contractions are initiated by an electrical signal at the plasma membrane of uterine muscle cells, leading to voltage-dependent calcium entry, and subsequent activation of the intracellular contractile machinery. In contrast to other visceral smooth muscles, it is not known where excitation within the uterus is initiated, and no defined pacemaking region has hitherto been identified. Using a combination of multi-electrode array recordings and high-resolution computational reconstruction of the three-dimensional micro-structure of late pregnant rat uterus, we demonstrate that electrical potentials are initiated in distinct structures within the placental bed of individual implantation sites. These previously unidentified structures represent modified smooth muscle bundles that are derived from bridges between the longitudinal and circular layers. Coordinated implantation and encapsulation by invading trophoblast give rise to isolated placental/myometrial interface bundles that directly connect to the overlying longitudinal smooth muscle layer. Furthermore, the numerous bridge structures co-localise with the vascular network located between the longitudinal and circular layers. Taken together, these observations imply that the anatomical structure of the uterus, combined with site-specific implantation, gives rise to emergent patterns of electrical activity that drive effective contractility during parturition. The identification of the pacemaking zones of the uterus has important consequences for the treatment of disorders of parturition such as preterm labor, postpartum hemorrhage and uterine dystocia.
ce is experiencing a data revolution in which simultaneous recording of many hundreds or thousands of neurons is revealing structure in population activity that is not apparent from single-neuron responses. This structure is typically extracted from trial-averaged data. Single-trial analyses are challenging due to incomplete sampling of the neural population, trial-to-trial variability, and fluctuations in action potential timing. Here we introduce Latent Factor Analysis via Dynamical Systems (LFADS), a deep learning method to infer latent dynamics from single-trial neural spiking data. LFADS uses a nonlinear dynamical system (a recurrent neural network) to infer the dynamics underlying observed population activity and to extract de-noised single-trial firing rates from neural spiking data. We apply LFADS to a variety of monkey and human motor cortical datasets, demonstrating its ability to predict observed behavioral variables with unprecedented accuracy, extract precise estimates of neural dynamics on single trials, infer perturbations to those dynamics that correlate with behavioral choices, and combine data from non-overlapping recording sessions (spanning months) to improve inference of underlying dynamics. In summary, LFADS leverages all observations of a neural populations activity to accurately model its dynamics on single trials, opening the door to a detailed understanding of the role of dynamics in performing computation and ultimately driving behavior.
able cognitive abilities characterizing humans has been linked to unique patterns of connectivity characterizing the neocortex. Comparative studies have shown that human cortical pyramidal neurons (PN) receive a significant increase of synaptic inputs  when compared to other mammals, including non-human primates and rodents, but how this may relate to changes in cortical connectivity and function remains largely unknown. We previously identified a human-specific gene duplication (HSGD), SRGAP2C, that, when induced in mouse cortical PNs drives human-specific features of synaptic development, including a correlated increase in excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I) synapse density. However, the origin and nature of this increased connectivity and its impact on cortical circuit function was unknown. Here, using a combination of transgenic approaches and quantitative monosynaptic tracing, we demonstrate that humanization of SRGAP2C expression in the mouse cortex leads to a specific increase in local and long-range cortico-cortical inputs received by layer 2/3 cortical PNs. Moreover, using in vivo 2-photon imaging in the barrel cortex of awake mice, we show that humanization of SRGAP2C expression increases the reliability and selectivity of sensory-evoked responses in layer 2-3 PNs. Our results suggest that the emergence of SRGAP2C during human evolution led to increased local and long-range cortico-cortical connectivity and improved reliability of sensory-evoked cortical coding.
ive link between focal cortical malformations (FCM) and epilepsy is well-accepted, especially among patients with focal cortical dysplasia type II (FCDII) and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). However, the mechanisms underlying seizures remain unclear. Using a mouse model of TSC- and FCDII-associated FCM, we show that FCM neurons are responsible for seizure activity via their unexpected abnormal expression of the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channel isoform 4 (HCN4), which is normally not present in cortical pyramidal neurons after birth. Increasing intracellular cAMP levels, which preferentially affects HCN4 gating relative to the other isoforms, drove repetitive firing of FCM neurons but not that of control pyramidal neurons. Ectopic HCN4 expression was mTOR-dependent, preceded the onset of seizures, and was also found in diseased neurons in tissue resected for epilepsy treatment from TSC and FCDII patients. Finally, blocking HCN4 channel activity in FCM neurons prevented epilepsy in mice. These findings that demonstrate HCN4 acquisition as seizure-genic, identify a novel cAMP-dependent seizure mechanism in TSC and FCDII. Furthermore, the unique expression of HCN4 exclusively in FCM neurons provides opportunities for using HCN4 as a gene therapy target to treat epilepsy in individuals with FCDII or TSC.
bility is essential for brain development and function. However, the contribution of DNA repair to genome stability in neurons remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that the base excision repair protein Pol is involved in hippocampal neuronal differentiation via a TET-mediated active DNA demethylation during early postnatal stages. Pol deficiency induced extensive DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in hippocampal neurons, and a lesser extent in cortical neurons, during a period in which decreased levels of 5-methylcytosine were observed in genomic DNA. Inhibition of the hydroxylation of 5-methylcytosine by microRNAs miR29a/b-1 expression diminished DSB formation. Conversely, its induction by TET1 overexpression increased DSBs. The damaged hippocampal neurons exhibited aberrant neuronal gene expression profiles and dendrite formation. Behavioral analyses revealed impaired spatial learning and memory in adulthood. Thus, Pol maintains genome stability in the active DNA demethylation that occurs during postnatal neuronal development, thereby contributing to differentiation and subsequent behavior.
ense mutations targeting the same proline 209 (Pro209) codon in the co-chaperone Bcl2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) have been reported to cause distal myopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy or Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 2 neuropathy. Yet, it is unclear whether distinct molecular mechanisms underlie the variable clinical spectrum of the rare patients carrying these three heterozygous Pro209 mutations in BAG3. Here, we studied all three variants and compared them to the BAG3_Glu455Lys mutant, which causes dilated cardiomyopathy. We found that all BAG3_Pro209 mutants have acquired a toxic gain-of-function, which causes these variants to accumulate in the form of insoluble HDAC6- and vimentin-positive aggresomes. The aggresomes formed by mutant BAG3 sequestered other chaperones such as HSPB8 and Hsp70, which, together with BAG3, promote the so called chaperone-assisted selective autophagy (CASA). As a consequence of their increased aggregation-proneness, mutant BAG3 trapped ubiquitinylated client proteins at the aggresome, preventing their efficient clearance. Combined, these data show that all BAG3_Pro209 mutants, irrespective of their different clinical phenotypes, are characterized by a gain-of-function that contributes to the gradual loss of protein homeostasis.
roles of protein conformational dynamics and allostery in protein function are well-accepted concepts, the roles of inter-domain dynamics in the structure-dynamics-function relation of biomolecules are not yet completely understood. Here we show that inter-domain dynamics of matrix metalloprotease-1 (MMP1) on fibrin are correlated with activity and can be modulated using ligands. Using single-molecule Forster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET), we determined that the distance between the catalytic and hemopexin domains of MMP1 becomes larger/smaller as the MMP1 activity becomes higher/lower. We modulated the activity using 1) a point mutation E219Q at the catalytic site of MMP1, which renders MMP1 inactive on its well-known substrate collagen and 2) tetracycline, an inhibitor of MMP1. At the ensemble level, MMP1 degraded the three chains of fibrin in a specific order with the -chain first and the -chain last. The experimentally observed sequence of degradation can be explained by calculating the distance between atoms of MMP1 and the three chains from the molecular docking poses, which showed that the proximity of MMP1 to the -chain had the lowest average value and the -chain has the largest average value. MMP1 degraded and dissolved crosslinked fibrin efficiently within hours. Our results pave a way towards the molecular understanding of MMP1 promiscuity by correlating inter-domain allosteric communications with activity.
one of the earliest identified mechanosensitive ion channels responsible for the sensation of touch and balance in  Drosophila melanogaster . A tethered gating model was proposed for NompC and the Cryo-EM structure has been solved. However, the atomistic mechano-gating mechanism still remains elusive. Here we show the atomistic details of the NompC channel opening in response to the compression of the intracellular domain while remaining closed under an intracellular stretch. This is demonstrated by all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and evidenced by electrophysiological experiments. Under intracellular compression, the ankyrin repeat region undergoes a significant conformational change and passes the mechanical force to the linker helices like a spring with a force constant of ~3.3 pN/nm. The linker helix region acts as a bridge between the ankyrin repeats and TRP domain, and most of the mutations breaking the hydrogen bonds around this region lead to the loss-of-function of the channel. Eventually, the compression-induced mechanical force is passed from the linker helices onto the TRP domain, which then undergoes a clockwise rotation that leads to the opening of the channel. This work provides a clear picture of how a pushing force opens the mechanosensitive ion channel NompC, which might be a universal gating mechanism of similar tethered mechanosensitive ion channels, enabling cells to feel and respond to compression or shrinking.
 (Annelida: Crassiclitellata), are widely distributed around the world due to their great adaptability. However, lack of a high-quality genome sequence prevents gaining the many insights into physiology, phylogeny, and genome evolution that could come from a good earthworm genome. Herein, we report a complete genome assembly of the earthworm Amynthas corticis of about 1.2 Gb, based on a strategy combining third-generation long-read sequencing and Hi-C mapping. A total of 29,256 protein-coding genes are annotated in this genome. Analysis of resequencing data indicates that this earthworm is a triploid species. Furthermore, gene family evolution analysis shows that comprehensive expansion of gene families in the earthworm genome has produced more defensive functions compared with other species in Annelida. Quantitative proteomic iTRAQ analysis shows 97 immune related proteins and 16S rDNA sequences shows 88 microbes with significantly response to pathogenic Escherichia coli O157:H7. Our genome assembly provides abundant and valuable resources for the earthworm research community, serving as a first step toward uncovering the mysteries of this species, may explain its powerful defensive functions adapt to complex environment and invasion from molecular level.
X) is a 14 amino acid peptide hormone that has pleiotropic functions across vertebrates, one of which is involvement in the brain-pituitary-gonad axis of fish. SPX(1) has been identified in each class of vertebrates, and a second SPX (named SPX2) has been found in some non-mammalian species. We have cloned two spexin paralogs, designated as Spx1a and Spx1b, from Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) that have varying tissue distribution patterns. Spx1b is a novel peptide only identified in cichlid fish, and is more closely related to Spx1 than Spx2 homologs as supported by phylogenetic, synteny, and functional analyses. Kisspeptin, Spx, and galanin (Gal) peptides and their corresponding kiss receptors and Gal receptors (Galrs), respectively, are evolutionarily related. Cloning of six tilapia Galrs (Galr1a, Galr1b, Galr2a, Galr2b, Galr type 1, and Galr type 2) and subsequent in vitro second-messenger reporter assays for Gs, Gq, and Gi suggests that Gal and Spx activate Galr1a/Galr2a and Galr2b, respectively. A decrease in plasma follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone concentrations was observed with injections of Spx1a or Spx1b in vivo. Additionally, application of Spx1a to pituitary slices decreased the firing rate of LH cells, suggesting direct inhibition at the pituitary level. These data collectively suggest an inhibitory mechanism of action against the secretion of gonadotropins for a traditional and a novel spexin paralog in cichlid species.
ction between an antibody and its epitope has been daily utilized in various biological studies; however it has been rarely explored whether small molecules can alter the interaction. We discovered that small molecules could alter/edit surface properties of amyloid beta (A) epitopes, and consequently inhibit or enhance corresponding antibody recognition. Remarkably, this editing effect could generate functional changes including protein aggregation behaviors, cell cytokine secreting and in vivo microglia activation. According to this discovery, we proposed a screen platform based on epitope editing for drug discovery (SPEED). With a small library of compounds, we validated that SPEED could be used to seek new leads for A species. We also demonstrated that this platform could potentially be extended to other targets including tau protein and PD-L1 protein. The SPEED is a simple, fast and label-free screening method. We believe that the SPEED strategy could be universally applicable for seeking and validating drug candidates and imaging ligands.
ta aggregation at the cell-membrane of neruonal cells is implicated as a source of toxicity for Alzheimers disease. Small molecules have been studied for their ability to supress amyloid aggregation and toxicity, but the presence of membranes negate their activity. Here, we have identified 5 small molecules that are active at the membrane interface.
 a significant barrier to building predictive models of cell-based self-assembly processes is that molecular models cannot capture minutes-long cellular dynamics that couple distinct components with active processes, while reaction-diffusion models lack sufficient detail for capturing assembly structures. Here we introduce the Non-Equilibrium Reaction-Diffusion Self-assembly Simulator (NERDSS), which addresses this gap by integrating a structure-resolved reaction-diffusion algorithm with rule-based model construction. By representing proteins as rigid, multi-site molecules that adopt well-defined orientations upon binding, NERDSS simulates formation of large reversible structures with sites that can be acted on by reaction rules. We show how NERDSS allows for directly comparing and optimizing models of multi-component assembly against time-dependent experimental data. Applying NERDSS to assembly steps in clathrin-mediated endocytosis, we capture how the formation of clathrin caged structures can be driven by modulating the strength of clathrin-clathrin interactions, by adding cooperativity, or by localizing clathrin to the membrane. NERDSS further predicts how clathrin lattice disassembly can be driven by enzymes that irreversibly change lipid populations on the membrane. By modeling viral lattice assembly and recapitulating oscillations in protein expression levels for a circadian clock model, we illustrate the wide usability and adaptability of NERDSS. NERDSS simulates user-defined assembly models that were previously inaccessible to existing software tools, with broad applications to predicting self-assembly in vivo and designing high-yield assemblies in vitro.
g, yet still under development approach to cancer treatment is based on the idea of differentiation therapy (DTH). Most tumours are characterised by poorly differentiated cell populations exhibiting a marked loss of traits associated to communication and tissue homeostasis. DTH has been suggested as an alternative (or complement) to cytotoxic-based approaches, and has proven successful in some specific types of cancer such as acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). While novel drugs favouring the activation of differentiation therapies are being tested, several open problems emerge in relation to its efectiveness on solid tumors. Here we present a mathematical approach to DTH based on a well-known ecological model used to describe habitat loss in a logistic-growing population experiencing death. This model seems to account for some of the observed clinical and in vitro outcomes of DTH while it provides relevant insight into potential treatment scenarios. Furthermore, the same ecological approach is tested in a hierarchical model that accounts for cancer stem cells, proving that DTH might be an effective opportunity to tackle all the self-renewing cellular compartments in a tumor. We show that the lessons learnt from  metapopulation ecology can help guide  future developments and potential difficulties of DTH.
s disease is a highly heritable and severe neuropsychiatric condition. Genome-wide association studies have identified multiple genetic risk factors underlying susceptibility to Alzheimer9s disease, however their functional impact remains poorly understood. To overcome this shortcoming, we integrated genome-wide association summary statistics (71,880 cases, 338,378 controls) with tissue-specific gene co-expression networks derived from GTEx to identify functional gene co-expression networks underlying the disease. We found genetic variants associated with Alzheimer9s disease are enriched in gene co-expression networks involved in immune response-related biological processes. The implicated gene co-expression networks are preserved across multiple brain and peripheral tissues, highlighting the potential utility of peripheral tissues in genetic studies of Alzheimer9s disease. We also performed a computational drug repositioning analysis by integrating gene expression changes within Alzheimer9s disease modules with drug-gene signatures from the Connectivity Map, and show disease implicated networks retrieve known Alzheimer9s disease drugs and novel drug repurposing candidates for follow-up functional studies. Our results improve the biological interpretation of recent genetic data for Alzheimer9s disease and provide a list of potential anti-dementia drug repositioning candidates of which the efficacy should be investigated in functional validation studies.
irus Zika virus (ZIKV) activates ribonuclease L (RNase L) catalytic antiviral function during infection, yet deletion of RNase L decreases ZIKV production, suggesting a proviral role of RNase L. In this study, we reveal that latent RNase L supports ZIKV replication factory (RF) assembly. Deletion of RNase L induced broader cellular distribution of ZIKV dsRNA and NS3 compared with densely concentrated RFs detected in WT cells. An inactive form of RNase L was sufficient to contain ZIKV genome and dsRNA within a smaller area, which increased levels of viral RNA within RFs as well as infectious ZIKV released from the cell. We used a microtubule stabilization drug to demonstrate that RNase L deletion impaired the cytoskeleton rearrangements that are required for proper generation of RFs. During infection with dengue or West Nile Kunjin viruses, RNase L decreased virus production, suggesting that RNase L proviral function is specific to ZIKV.
l functional genetic studies in crops are time-consuming, complicated and cannot be readily scaled up. The reason is that mutant or transformed crops need to be generated to study the effect of gene modifications on specific traits of interest. However, many crop species have a complex genome and a long generation time. As a result, it usually takes several months to over a year to obtain desired mutants or transgenic plants, which represents a significant bottleneck in the development of new crop varieties. To overcome this major issue, we are currently establishing a versatile plant genetic screening platform, amenable to high throughput screening in almost any crop species, with a unique workflow. This platform combines protoplast transformation and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Here we show that tobacco protoplasts can accumulate high levels of lipids if transiently transformed with genes involved in lipid biosynthesis and can be sorted based on lipid content. Hence, protoplasts can be used as a predictive tool for plant lipid engineering. Using this newly established strategy, we demonstrate the major role of ABI3 in plant lipid accumulation. We anticipate that this workflow can be applied to numerous highly valuable metabolic traits other than storage lipid accumulation. This new strategy represents a significant step towards screening complex genetic libraries, in a single experiment and in a matter of days, as opposed to years by conventional means.
ntification and characterisation is essential to correlate glycoconjugate structure to biological function. The structural assignment of carbohydrates is often based on MS composition analyses and knowledge on well-studied glycosylation pathways. Nevertheless, many monosaccharide building blocks are indistinguishable by mass alone and detailed linkage information is also not easily obtained by MS/MS analyses, in particular when organisms are studied where the glycosylation pathways are less well defined. Here, we present a novel, simple and sensitive method using Reversed Phase (RP) Liquid Chromatography Electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry (LC ESI MS/MS) for unambiguous identification and linkage determination of monosaccharides including N-acetylneuraminic acids. Sequential permethylation and reductive amination steps are employed prior and after acid hydrolysis to enable separation and differentiation of the various monosaccharides and their respective linkage positions. The well-established, monosaccharide specific methylation patterns allowed for the identification of the various derivatised monosaccharide alditols based on their retention time and tandem mass spectrometry fingerprint. Absolute quantitation can also be accomplished by including a set of internal standards, thus simultaneously providing qualitative and quantitative information on the monosaccharide residues present.
 organisms are modular. Theory predicts that natural selection would steadily improve modules towards their performance optima up to the margin of effective neutrality. This classical theory may break down for populations evolving in the clonal interference regime because natural selection may focus on some modules while adaptation of others stalls. Such evolutionary stalling has not been observed and it is unclear whether it limits the power of natural selection to optimize module performance. To empirically characterize evolutionary stalling, we evolved populations of Escherichia coli with genetically perturbed translation machineries (TMs). We show that populations with different suboptimal TMs embark on statistically distinct trajectories of TM optimization. Yet, before TMs approach the margin of effective neutrality, the focus of natural selection shifts to other cellular modules, and TM optimization stalls. Our results suggest that module optimization within an organism may take much longer than suggested by classical theory.
 profiling enables unique insights into human development and diseases. Often the analysis of bulk samples remains the only feasible option for studying complex tissues and organs in large patient cohorts, masking the signatures of important cell populations in convoluted signals. DNA methylomes are highly cell type-specific, enabling recovery of hidden components using advanced computational methods without the need of reference profiles. We propose a three-stage protocol for reference-free deconvolution of DNA methylomes comprising: (i) data preprocessing, confounder adjustment and feature selection, (ii) deconvolution with multiple parameters, and (iii) guided biological inference and validation of deconvolution results. Our protocol simplifies the analysis and integration of DNA methylomes derived from complex tissues, including tumors. Applying this protocol to lung cancer methylomes from TCGA revealed components linked to stromal cells, tumor-infiltrating immune cells, and associations with clinical parameters. The protocol takes less than four days to complete and requires basic R skills.
udy, the effect of CurDAc, a water-soluble curcumin derivative, on the formation and stability of amyloid fibers is revealed. CurDAc interaction with amyloid is structurally selective which is reflected in a strong interference with hIAPP aggregation, while showing weaker interactions with human-calcitonin and Amyloid-beta in comparison. Remarkably, CurDAc also exhibited potent fiber disaggregation for hIAPP generating a toxic oligomeric species.
ary structure is helpful for understanding RNA9s functionality, thus accurate prediction systems are desired. Both thermodynamics-based models and machine learning-based models have been used in different prediction systems to solve this problem. Compared to thermodynamics-based models, machine learning-based models can address the inaccurate measurement of thermodynamic parameters due to experimental limitation. However, the existing methods for training machine learning-based models are still expensive because of their cubic-time inference cost. To overcome this, we present a linear-time machine learning-based folding system, using recently proposed approximate folding tool LinearFold as inference engine, and structured SVM (sSVM) as training algorithm. Furthermore, to remedy non-convergence of naive sSVM with inexact search inference, we introduce a max violation update strategy. The training speed of our system is 41 times faster than CONTRAfold on a diverse dataset for one epoch, and 14 times faster than MXfold on a dataset with longer sequences. With the learned parameters, our system improves the accuracy of LinearFold, and is also the most accurate system among selected folding tools, including CONTRAfold, Vienna RNAfold and MXfold.
hermogenesis, which is partly mediated by sympathetic input on brown adipose tissue (BAT), is a mechanism of heat production in response to prolonged cold that relies upon the actions of Uncoupling Protein-1 (UCP1). Moreover, various stimuli, including norepinephrine and FGF-21, promote the conversion of inguinal white adipocytes to beige adipocytes, which represent a secondary cell type that can contribute to adaptive thermogenesis. Although we previously identified an essential role of the molecular scaffold 14-3-3 in adipogenesis, one of the earliest, identified functions of 14-3-3 is its regulatory effects on the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of norepinephrine. This suggests that 14-3-3 could influence adaptive thermogenesis via actions on BAT activation or the beiging of white adipocytes. Herein, we report that transgenic over-expression of 14-3-3 (TAP) in male mice significantly improved tolerance to acute (3 hrs) and chronic (3 days) cold (4 oC) exposure. In response to cold,increased UCP1 expression in beige inguinal white tissue (iWAT) and BAT was observed in TAP mice following chronic cold exposure, in addition to significantly elevated body temperature. Of note was the paradoxical finding that cold-induced increases in body temperature were associated with significantly decreased energy expenditure in TAP mice. The marked improvements in cold tolerance were not due to changes in sensitivity to -adrenergic stimulation; instead over-expression of 14-3-3 significantly decreased thermal conductance and heat loss in mice via increased peripheral vasoconstriction. Despite displaying elevations in cold-induced UCP1 expression in brown or beige adipocytes, these findings suggest alternative mechanisms that can be activated to mitigate heat loss during chronic cold exposure. Collectively, our results point to novel roles of 14-3-3 in regulating non-thermogenic mechanisms that regulate body temperature.
ding RNAs are thought to regulate gene expression by organizing protein complexes through unclear mechanisms. XIST controls the inactivation of an entire X chromosome in female placental mammals. Here we develop and integrate several orthogonal structure-interaction analysis methods to demonstrate that XIST RNA-protein complex folds into an evolutionarily conserved modular architecture. Chimeric RNAs and clustered protein binding in fRIP and eCLIP experiments align with long-range RNA secondary structure, revealing discrete XIST domains that interact with distinct sets of effector proteins. CRISPR-Cas9 permutation of the Xist A-repeat location shows that A-repeat serves as a nucleation center for multiple Xist-associated proteins and m6A modification. The modular architecture plays an essential role, in addition to sequence motifs, in determining the specificity of RBP binding and m6A modification. Together, this work builds a comprehensive structure-function model for the XIST RNA-protein complex, and suggests a general strategy for mechanistic studies of large ribonucleprotein assemblies.
ydatidiform Mole (HM) is a gestational trophoblastic disease resulting in hyper proliferation of trophoblast cells and absence of embryo development. Mutations in the primate specific-maternal effect gene NLRP7 are the major cause of familial recurrent complete HM. Here, we established an in vitro model of HM using NLRP7 deficient patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived trophoblasts. Using whole transcriptome profiling during trophoblast differentiation, we showed that NLRP7 deficiency results in precocious downregulation of pluripotency factors, activation of trophoblast lineage markers and promotes maturation of differentiated extraembryonic cell types such as syncytiotrophoblasts. Interestingly, we found that these phenotypes are dependent on BMP4 signaling and BMP pathway inhibition corrected the excessive trophoblast differentiation of patient derived iPSCs. Our human iPSC model of a genetic placental disease recapitulates aspects of trophoblast biology, highlights the broad utility of iPSC-derived trophoblasts for modeling human placental diseases and identifies NLRP7 as an essential modulator of key developmental cell fate regulators.
flux pump similar to Nor efflux pumps and designated as NorK was identified in Staphylococcus aureus. It contributes to norfloxacin resistance and presents a high level of expression in different strains. Its expression is not regulated by MgrA, unlike other genes of the nor gene family, suggesting that NorK could be important in the absence of expression of other nor genes.
tal monitoring of bacteria using phage-based biosensors has been widely developed for many different species. However, there are only a few available methods to detect specific bacteriophages in raw environmental samples. In this work, we developed a simple and efficient assay to rapidly monitor the phage content of a given sample. The assay is based on the bistable expression of the Salmonella enterica opvAB operon. Under regular growth conditions, opvAB is only expressed by a small fraction of the bacterial subpopulation. In the OpvAB ON  subpopulation, synthesis of the OpvA and OpvB products shortens the O-antigen in the lipopolysaccharide and confers resistance to phages that use LPS as a receptor. As a consequence, the OpvAB ON  subpopulation is selected in the presence of such phages. Using an opvAB::gfp fusion, we could monitor LPS-binding phages in various media, including raw water samples. To enlarge our phage-biosensor panoply, we also developed several coliphage biosensors that proved efficient to detect LPS- as well as protein-binding coliphages. Moreover, the combination of these tools allows to identify what is the bacterial receptor triggering phage infection. The opvAB::gfp biosensor thus comes in different flavours to efficiently detect a wide range of bacteriophages and identify the type of receptor they recognize.
 oscillations of cells in a population appear under diverse biological contexts. Here, we establish a set of common principles by categorising the response of individual cells against a time-varying signal. A positive intracellular signal relay of sufficient gain from participating cells is required to sustain the oscillations, together with phase matching. The two conditions yield quantitative predictions for the onset cell density and frequency in terms of measured single-cell and signal response functions. Through mathematical constructions, we show that cells that adapt to a constant stimulus fulfil the phase requirement by developing a leading phase in an active frequency window that enables cell-to-signal energy flow. Analysis of dynamical quorum sensing in several cellular systems with increasing biological complexity reaffirms the pivotal role of adaptation in powering oscillations in an otherwise dissipative cell-to-cell communication channel. The physical conditions identified also apply to synthetic oscillatory systems.
 of the macrophage immunometabolism regulator gene (MACIR) is associated with severity of autoimmune disease pathology and the regulation of macrophage biology through unknown mechanisms. The 206 amino acid protein lacks homology to any characterized protein sequence and is a disordered protein according to structure prediction algorithms. Here we identify specific interactions of MACIR using a fragment complementation-based affinity pull down of cellular proteins prepared with a membrane solubilization buffer. Quantitative mass spectrometry showed enrichment of nuclear and mitochondrial proteins and of 63 significant interacting proteins, binding to the nuclear transport receptor TNPO1 and trafficking proteins UNC119 homolog A and B were validated by immunoprecipitation. Analysis of mutations in two candidate recognition motifs in the MACIR amino acid sequence confirmed TNPO1 binds via a PY-NLS motif (aa98-117). Characterizing nuclear MACIR activity in macrophage and fibroblasts is a priority with respect to developing strategies for treatment of autoimmune disease.
ing number of field studies show that the phenotype of an individual plant depends not only on its genotype but also on those of neighboring plants; however, this fact is not taken into consideration in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Based on the Ising model of ferromagnetism, we incorporated neighbor genotypic identity into a regression model in this study. The proposed method, named 9neighbor GWAS9, was applied to simulated and real phenotypes using  Arabidopsis thaliana  accessions. Our simulations showed that phenotypic variation explained by neighbor effects approached a plateau when an effective spatial scale became narrow. Thus, the effective scale of neighbor effects could be estimated by patterns of the phenotypic variation explained. The power to detect causal variants of neighbor effects was moderate to strong when a trait was governed by tens of variants. In contrast, there was a reasonable power down when hundreds of variants underlay a single trait. We applied the neighbor GWAS to field herbivory data on 200 accessions of  A. thaliana , and found that the neighbor effects more largely contributed to the observed damage variation than self-genotype effects. Interestingly, several defensin family genes were associated with neighbor effects on the herbivory, while self-genotype effects were related to flavin-monooxygenase glucosinolate S-oxygenase 2 (FMO GS-OX2). Overall, the neighbor GWAS highlights the overlooked but significant role of plant neighborhood effects in shaping phenotypic variation, thereby providing a novel and powerful tool to dissect complex traits in spatially structured environments.
ave disk shape of the mammalian red blood cell (RBC) is unique to the RBC and is vital for its circulatory function. Due to the absence of a transcellular cytoskeleton, RBC shape is determined by the membrane skeleton, a network of actin filaments cross-linked by spectrin and attached to membrane proteins. While the physical properties of a uniformly distributed actin network interacting with the lipid bilayer membrane have been assumed to control RBC shape, recent experiments reveal that RBC biconcave shape also depends on the contractile activity of nonmuscle myosin IIA (NMIIA) motor proteins. Here, we use the classical Helfrich-Canham model for the RBC membrane to test the role of heterogeneous force distributions along the membrane and mimic the contractile activity of sparsely distributed NMIIA filaments. By incorporating this additional contribution to the Helfrich-Canham energy, we find that the RBC biconcave shape depends on the ratio of forces per unit volume in the dimple and rim regions of the RBC. Experimental measurements of NMIIA densities at the dimple and rim validate our prediction that (a) membrane forces must be non-uniform along the RBC membrane and (b) the force density must be larger in the dimple than the rim to produce the observed membrane curvatures. Furthermore, we predict that RBC membrane tension and the orientation of the applied forces play important roles in regulating this force-shape landscape. Our findings of heterogeneous force distributions on the plasma membrane for RBC shape maintenance may also have implications for shape maintenance in different cell types.
ve imaging of biological architecture with fluorescent labels is not as scalable as genomic or proteomic measurements. Here, we combine quantitative label-free imaging and deep neural networks for scalable analysis of complex structures.  We reconstruct quantitative three-dimensional density, anisotropy, and orientation in live cells and tissue slices from polarization- and depth-resolved images. We report a computationally efficient variant of U-Net architecture that predicts a 3D fluorescent structure from its morphology and physical properties. We evaluate the performance of our models by predicting F-actin and nuclei in mouse kidney tissue. Further, we report label-free imaging of axon tracts and predict level of myelination in human brain tissue sections. We demonstrate the model9s ability to rescue inconsistent labeling. We anticipate that the proposed approach will enable quantitative analysis of architectural order across scales of organelles to tissues.
coeruleus (LC) is a nucleus within the brainstem that consists of norepinephrine-releasing neurons. It is involved in broad processes including autonomic regulation, and cognitive and emotional functions such as arousal, attention and anxiety. Understanding the mechanisms that control the excitability of LC neurons is important because they innervate widespread regions of the central nervous system. One of the key regulators is the cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]c), the increases in which can be amplified by calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) from the intracellular calcium stores. Although the electrical activities of LC neurons are regulated by changes in [Ca2+]c, the extent of CICR involvement in this regulation has remained unclear. Here we show that CICR hyperpolarizes acutely dissociated LC neurons of the rat brain and demonstrate the pathway whereby it does this. When CICR was activated by extracellular application of 10 mM caffeine, LC neurons were hyperpolarized in the current-clamp mode of the patch-clamp recording, and the majority of neurons showed an outward current in the voltage-clamp mode. This outward current was accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance, and its reversal potential was close to the K+ equilibrium potential, indicating that it is mediated by the opening of K+ channels. The outward current was generated in the absence of extracellular calcium and was blocked when the calcium stores were inhibited by applying ryanodine. Pharmacological experiments indicated that the outward current was mediated by Ca2+-activated K+ channels of the non-small conductance type. Finally, the application of caffeine led to an increase in the [Ca2+]c in these neurons, as visualized by fluorescence microscopy. These findings delineate a mechanism whereby CICR suppresses the electrical activity of LC neurons, and indicate that it could play a dynamic role in modulating the LC-mediated noradrenergic tone in the brain.
ure folds of the human brain are formed through a complex and developmentally regulated process. In vitro and in silico models of this process demonstrate a random pattern of sulci and gyri, unlike the highly ordered and conserved structure seen in the human cortex. Here, we account for the large-scale pattern of cortical folding by combining advanced fetal MRI with nonlinear diffeomorphic registration and volumetric analysis. Our analysis demonstrates that in utero brain growth follows a logistic curve, in the absence of an external volume constraint. The Sylvian fissure forms from interlobar folding, where separate lobes overgrow and close an existing subarachnoid space. In contrast, other large sulci, which are the ones represented in existing models, fold through an invagination of a flat surface, a mechanistically different process. Analyzing local variations in volumetric expansion rates, we demonstrate that the three phases of the logistic curve correspond to three different phases of folding - interlobar, large sulcal, and secondary folding. Cortical folding is driven by multiple spatially and temporally different mechanisms, therefore regionally distinct biological process may be responsible for the global geometry of the adult brain.
ed activity in the ventral thalamus, a major target of basal ganglia (BG) output, is often assumed to be permitted or triggered by changes in BG activity through gating- or rebound-like mechanisms. To test those hypotheses, we sampled single-unit activity from connected BG-output and thalamic nuclei (globus pallidus-internus, GPi, and ventrolateral-anterior nucleus, VLa) in monkeys performing a reaching task. Rate increases were the most common peri-movement change in both nuclei. Moreover, peri-movement changes generally began earlier in VLa than in GPi. Simultaneously-recorded GPi-VLa pairs rarely showed short-timescale spike-to-spike correlations or slow across-trials covariations and both were equally positive and negative. Spontaneous GPi bursts and pauses were both followed by small reductions in VLa rate. These results appear incompatible with standard gating and rebound models. Instead, simulations show how GPi-VLa communication can scale with GPi synchrony and GPi-to-VLa convergence, thereby explaining these otherwise-incongruent findings and illuminating potential links to BG pathophysiology.
rst time, empirical evidence allowed to construct the frequency distribution of an index related to the degree of genetic relatedness between the parents of about 0.5 million humans living in the UK. The results show that a large proportion of the population is not the product of parents choosing a mate randomly. Assortative mating leading to offspring, that occurs between genetic related individuals, is very common. High degrees of genetic relatedness, i.e. extreme inbreeding, is rare. The evidence shows that assortative mating is highly prevalent in this large population sample. This novel empirical result suggests that assuming random mating, as widely done in population genetic studies, is not an appropriate approximation to reality.
 sense and transmit auditory, vestibular, and hydrodynamic information by converting mechanical stimuli into electrical signals. This process of mechano-electrical transduction (MET) requires a mechanically-gated channel localized in the apical stereocilia of hair cells. In mice, lipoma HMGIC fusion partner-like 5 (LHFPL5) acts as an auxiliary subunit of the MET channel whose primary role is to correctly localize PCDH15 and TMC1 to the mechanotransduction complex. Zebrafish have two lhfpl5 genes (lhfpl5a and lhfpl5b), but their individual contributions to MET channel assembly and function have not been analyzed. Here we show that the zebrafish lhfpl5 genes are expressed in discrete populations of hair cells: lhfpl5a expression is restricted to auditory and vestibular hair cells in the inner ear, while lhfpl5b expression is specific to hair cells of the lateral line organ. Consequently, lhfpl5a mutants exhibit defects in auditory and vestibular function, while disruption of lhfpl5b affects hair cells only in the lateral line neuromasts. In contrast to previous reports in mice, localization of Tmc1 does not depend upon Lhfpl5 function in either the inner ear or lateral line organ. In both lhfpl5a and lhfpl5b mutants, GFP-tagged Tmc1 and Tmc2b proteins still localize to the stereocilia of hair cells. Using a stably integrated GFP-Lhfpl5a transgene, we show that the tip link cadherins Pcdh15a and Cdh23, along with the Myo7aa motor protein, are required for correct Lhfpl5a localization at the tips of stereocilia. Our work corroborates the evolutionarily conserved co-dependence between Lhfpl5 and Pcdh15, but also reveals novel requirements for Cdh23 and Myo7aa to correctly localize Lhfpl5a. In addition, our data suggest that targeting of Tmc1 and Tmc2b proteins to stereocilia in zebrafish hair cells occurs independently of Lhfpl5 proteins.
ionary forces shaping life history trait divergence within species are largely unknown. Killifish (oviparous Cyprinodontiformes) evolved an annual life cycle as an exceptional adaptation to life in arid savannah environments characterized by seasonal water availability. The turquoise killifish (Nothobranchius furzeri) is the shortest-lived vertebrate known to science and displays differences in lifespan among wild populations, representing an ideal natural experiment in the evolution and diversification of life history. Here, by combining genome sequencing and population genetics, we investigate the evolutionary forces shaping lifespan among turquoise killifish populations. We generate an improved reference assembly for the turquoise killifish genome, trace the evolutionary origin of the sex chromosome, and identify genes under strong positive and purifying selection, as well as those evolving neutrally. We find that the shortest-lived turquoise killifish populations, which dwell in fragmented and isolated habitats at the outer margin of the geographical range of the species, are characterized by small effective population size and accumulate throughout the genome several small to large-effect deleterious mutations due to genetic drift. The genes most affected by drift in the shortest-lived turquoise killifish populations are involved in the WNT signalling pathway, neurodegenerative disorders, cancer and the mTOR pathway. As the populations under stronger genetic drift are the shortest-lived ones, we propose that limited population size due to habitat fragmentation and repeated population bottlenecks, by causing the genome-wide accumulation of deleterious mutations, cumulatively contribute to the short adult lifespan in turquoise killifish populations.
is a project aimed at identifying and analyzing functional elements in the maize genome. In its initial phase, MaizeCODE assayed up to five tissues from four maize strains (B73, NC350, W22, TIL11) by RNA-Seq, Chip-Seq, RAMPAGE, and small RNA sequencing. To facilitate reproducible science and provide both human and machine access to the MaizeCODE data, we developed SciApps, a cloud-based portal, for analysis and distribution of both raw data and analysis results. Based on the SciApps workflow platform, we generated new components to support the complete cycle of the MaizeCODE data management. These include publicly accessible scientific workflows for reproducible and shareable analysis of various functional data, a RESTful API for batch processing and distribution of data and metadata, a searchable data page that lists each MaizeCODE experiment as a reproducible workflow, and integrated JBrowse genome browser tracks linked with workflows and metadata. The SciApps portal is a flexible platform that allows integration of new analysis tools, workflows, and genomic data from multiple projects. Through metadata and a ready-to-compute cloud-based platform, the portal experience improves access to the MaizeCODE data and facilitates its analysis.
first digit (D1) of the mouse9s hand resembles a volar pad, but its thumb-like anatomy suggests ethological importance for manipulating small objects. To explore this possibility, we recorded high-speed close-up video of mice eating seeds and other food items. Analyses of ethograms and automated tracking with DeepLabCut revealed multiple distinct microstructural features of food-handling. First, we found that mice indeed made extensive use of D1 for dexterous manipulations. In particular, mice used D1 to hold food with either of two grip types: a pincer-type grasp, or a &quot;thumb-hold&quot; grip, pressing with D1 from the side. Thumb-holding was preferentially used for handling smaller items, with the smallest items held between the two D1s alone. Second, we observed that mice cycled rapidly between two postural modes while feeding, with the hands positioned either at the mouth (oromanual phase) or resting below (holding phase). Third, we identified two highly stereotyped D1-related movements during feeding, including an extraordinarily fast (~20 ms) &quot;regrip&quot; maneuver, and a fast (~100 ms) &quot;sniff&quot; maneuver. Lastly, in addition to these characteristic simpler movements and postures, we also observed highly complex movements, including rapid D1-assisted rotations of food items and dexterous simultaneous double-gripping of two food fragments. Manipulation behaviors were generally conserved for different food types, and for head-fixed mice. Wild squirrels displayed a similar repertoire of D1-related movements. Our results define, for the mouse, a set of kinematic building-blocks of manual dexterity, and reveal an outsized role for D1 in these actions.
argely non-mitotic tissues such as the brain are prone to stochastic (epi-)genetic alterations that may cause increased variability between cells and individuals over time. Although increased inter-individual heterogeneity in gene expression was previously reported, whether this process starts during development or if it is restricted to the aging period has not yet been studied. The regulatory dynamics and functional significance of putative aging-related heterogeneity are also unknown. Here we address these by a meta-analysis of 19 transcriptome datasets from diverse human brain regions. We observed a significant increase in inter-individual heterogeneity during aging (20+ years) compared to postnatal development (0 to 20 years). Increased heterogeneity during aging was consistent among different brain regions at the gene level and associated with lifespan regulation and neuronal functions. Overall, our results show that increased expression heterogeneity is a characteristic of aging human brain, and may influence aging-related changes in brain functions.
: TDCS modulates cortical excitability in a polarity-specific way. When used in combination with a behavioural task, it can also alter performance. Previously, tDCS modulated the performance of older adults on a complex speech motor learning task, which involved repetition of tongue twisters (Fiori et al., 2014). Objective: We aimed to replicate this finding in healthy young participants and to extend it by measuring tDCS-induced changes in motor excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation and motor-evoked potentials elicited in the lips. Method: In a double-blind randomized sham-controlled study, three groups of 20 participants received: 1) anodal tDCS to the left IFG/LipM1 and cathodal tDCS to the right hemisphere homologue; or 2) cathodal tDCS over the left and anodal over the right; or 3) sham stimulation. Participants heard and repeated tongue twisters and matched simple sentences before, during and 10 minutes after the stimulation. Motor excitability was measured before and immediately after the tDCS. Results: The improvement in performance of tongue twister repetition from baseline to after stimulation was significantly greater than for the simple sentences but did not differ among the three groups. Motor excitability significantly decreased to a small but similar extent across the three groups. Conclusions: TDCS did not modulate performance on a complex articulation task in healthy young adults.  TDCS applied concurrently with task learning also failed to modulate motor excitability in expected ways.  TDCS may be most effective in brains where brain function is sub-optimal due to age-related declines or pathology.
transcription is well known in bacteria. However, translation of antisense RNAs is typically not considered, as the implied overlapping coding at a DNA locus is assumed to be highly improbable. Therefore, such overlapping genes are systematically excluded in prokaryotic genome annotation. Here we report an exceptional 603 bp long open reading frame completely embedded in antisense to the gene of the outer membrane protein ompA. Ribosomal profiling revealed translation of the mRNA and the protein was detected in Western blots. A 70 promoter, transcription start site, Shine-Dalgarno motif and rho-independent terminator were experimentally validated. A pH-dependent phenotype conferred by the protein was shown in competitive overexpression growth experiments of a translationally arrested mutant versus wild type. We designate this novel gene pop (pH-regulated overlapping protein-coding gene). Increasing evidence based on ribosome-profiling indicates translation of antisense RNA, suggesting that more overlapping genes of unknown function may exist in bacteria.
: Cancer-associated muscle wasting (CAW), a symptom of cancer cachexia, is associated with approximately 20% of lung cancer deaths, and remains poorly characterized on a mechanistic level. Current animal models for lung cancer-associated cachexia are limited in that they: 1) primarily employ flank transplantation methods, 2) have short survival times not reflective of the patient condition, and 3) are typically performed in young mice not representative of mean patient age. This study investigates a new model for lung cancer associated cachexia that can address these issues and also implicates muscle regeneration as a contributor to CAW.Methods: We used tail vein injection as a method to introduce tumor cells that seed primarily in the lungs of mice. Body composition of tumor bearing mice was longitudinally tracked using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These data were combined with histological and molecular assessments of skeletal muscle to provide a complete analysis of muscle wasting.Results: In this new lung CAW model we observed 1) progressive loss in whole body weight, 2) progressive loss of lean and fat mass, 3) a circulating cytokine/inflammatory profile similar to that seen in other models of CAW, 4)histological changes associated with muscle wasting, and 5) molecular changes in muscle that implicate suppression of muscle repair/regeneration. Finally, we show that survival can be extended without lessening CAW by titrating injected cell number.Conclusions: Overall, this study describes a new model of CAW that could be useful for further studies of lung cancer-associated wasting and accompanying changes in the regenerative capacity of muscle. Additionally, this model addresses many recent concerns with existing models such asimmunocompetence, location of tumor, and survival time.
of influential genetic variants and prediction of phenotypes such as antibiotic resistance are becoming routine tasks in bacterial genomics. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) methods can be applied to study bacterial populations, with a particular emphasis on alignment-free approaches, which are necessitated by the more plastic nature of bacterial genomes. Here we advance bacterial GWAS by introducing a computationally scalable joint modeling framework, where genetic variants covering the entire pangenome are compactly represented by unitigs, and the model fitting is achieved using elastic net penalization. In contrast to current leading GWAS approaches, which test each genotype-phenotype association separately for each variant, our joint modelling approach is shown to lead to increased statistical power while maintaining control of the false positive rate. Our inference procedure also delivers an estimate of the narrow-sense heritability, which is gaining considerable interest in studies of bacteria. Using an extensive set of state-of-the-art bacterial population genomic datasets we demonstrate that our approach performs accurate phenotype prediction, comparable to popular machine learning methods, while retaining both interpretability and computational efficiency. We expect that these advances will pave the way for the next generation of high-powered association and prediction studies for an increasing number of bacterial species.
ectors are being used increasingly often to study aquatic and aerial species, for which movement is significantly different from terrestrial species. While terrestrial camera-trapping studies have shown that capture frequency, along with the species9 movement speed and detector specifications can be used to estimate absolute densities, the approach has not yet been adapted to cases where movement occurs in three dimensions. Frameworks based on animal movement patterns allow estimating population density from camera-trapping data when animals are not individually distinguishable.  Here we adapt one such framework to three-dimensional movement to characterize the relationship between population density, animal speed, characteristics of a remote sensor9s detection zone, and detection frequency. The derivation involves defining the detection zone mathematically and calculating the mean area of the profile it presents to approaching individuals.  We developed two variants of the model - one assuming random movement of all individuals, and one allowing for different probabilities for each approach direction (e.g. that animals more often swim/fly horizontally than vertically). We used computer simulations to evaluate model performance for a wide range of animal and detector densities. Simulations show that in ideal conditions the method approximates true density well, and that estimates become increasingly accurate using more detectors, or sampling for longer. Moreover, the method is robust to invalidation of assumptions, accuracy is decreased only in extreme cases where all detectors are facing the same way. We provide equations for estimating population density from detection frequency and outline how to estimate the necessary parameters. We discuss how environmental variables and species-specific characteristics affect parameter estimates and how to account for these differences in density estimations.  Our method can be applied to common remote detection methods (cameras and acoustic detectors), which are currently being used to study a diversity of species and environments. Therefore, our work may significantly expand the number and diversity of species for which density can be estimated.
nd hatchlings of many species perform incredibly sophisticated behaviors, but all vertebrates and many invertebrates selectively abstain from sexual activity at the beginning of life. Hormonal changes have long been associated with adolescence, but it is not clear how these circulating factors create a new motivation and drive its associated behaviors. We show that the transition to sexuality in male Drosophila is controlled by juvenile hormone, which spikes at eclosion and declines over days as the propensity for courtship gradually increases. Juvenile hormone directly inhibits the activity of at least three courtship-motivating circuit elements, ensuring the complete suppression of sexual motivation and behavior. Blocking or overriding these inhibitory mechanisms evokes immediate and robust sexual behavior from very young and otherwise asexual males. These results provide a first example of hormonal changes gating the transition to sexuality by activating latent, but largely developed and functional, motivational circuitry.
omosome organization affects chromosomal aberrations is an important unresolved question in cell and radiation biology. In interphase the chromosomes form territories where chromatin folds into quite heterogeneous states. The mechanisms determining the spectrum of chromosome conformations remain poorly understood. We introduced the polymer model of mouse chromosome and generated the ensemble of 3D conformations. The chromosome model was validated against independent Hi-C (high-throughput chromosome conformation capture) data. The model described well Hi-C contact heatmap for chromosome 18 in pro-B mouse cells, both ATM-deficient and wild-type. We used the chromosome model to assess the role of chromosome structure in breakpoint distribution for intrachromosomal exchange aberrations. We investigated the effect of elevated frequency of breakpoints outside of the region of enzymatic breaksite. Chromosome aberration model explained breakpoint distribution under recurrent and ionizing radiation-induced DNA double-strand breaks in mouse chromosome 18 on the basis of contact-first mechanism. Overall, our results provide a framework for assessment of role of chromosome 3D organization on chromosome aberrations following DNA damage of different origin.
d models of molecular evolution, DNA sequences evolve through asynchronous substitutions according to Poisson processes with a constant rate (called the molecular clock) or a time-varying rate (relaxed clock). However, DNA sequences can also undergo episodes of fast divergence that will appear as synchronous substitutions affecting several sites simultaneously at the macroevolutionary time scale. Here, we develop a model combining basal, clock-like molecular evolution with episodes of fast divergence called spikes arising at speciation events. Given a multiple sequence alignment and its time-calibrated species phylogeny, our model is able to detect speciation events (including hidden ones) co-occurring with spike events and to estimate the probability and amplitude of these spikes on the phylogeny. We identify the conditions under which spikes can be distinguished from the natural variance of the clock-like component of molecular evolution and from temporal variations of the clock. We apply the method to genes underlying snake venom proteins and identify several spikes at gene-specific locations in the phylogeny. This work should pave the way for analyses relying on whole genomes to inform on modes of species diversification.
e motives behind goal-directed behaviors are often complex, most behaviors result from the interplay between different motives. However, it is unclear how this interplay between multiple motives affects the neural computation of goal-directed behaviors. Using a combination of drift-diffusion modeling and fMRI, we show that the interplay between different social motives changes initial preferences for prosocial behavior before a person makes a behavioral choice. This increase in preferences for the prosocial choice option was tracked by neural responses in the bilateral dorsal striatum, which in turn lowered the amount of information necessary for choosing prosocial behavior. We obtained these results using a paradigm in which each participant performed the same behavior based on different, simultaneously activated motives, or based on each of the motives separately. Thus, our findings provide a model of behavioral choice computation in complex motivational states, i.e., the motivational setting that drives most goal-directed human behaviors.
lin ring complex (TuRC) is the major microtubule nucleator in cells. However, the mechanism of its regulation is not understood. Here, we purified human TuRC and quantitatively characterized its nucleation properties in a TIRF microscopy-based real-time nucleation assay. We find that microtubule nucleation by TuRC is kinetically inhibited compared to microtubule elongation. Determining the cryo-EM structure of TuRC at 4  resolution reveals an asymmetric conformation with only part of the complex in a 9closed9 conformation matching the microtubule geometry. Several factors stabilise the closed conformation. One is actin in the core of the complex and others, likely MZT1 or MZT2, line the outer perimeter of the closed part of TuRC. The opposed side of TuRC is in an 9open9, nucleation-incompetent conformation, leading to a structural asymmetry, explaining the kinetic inhibition of nucleation by human TuRC. Our data suggest possible regulatory mechanisms for microtubule nucleation by TuRC closure.
ipotent stem cells (PSC) often acquire genetic changes on prolonged culture, which pose concerns for their use in research and regenerative medicine(Amps et al., 2011, Seth et al., 2011). The acquisition of these changes during culture necessarily first requires mutation and then selection of those mutations that provide a growth advantage. Whilst selection accounts for the recurrent nature of the variants commonly reported(Draper et al., 2004, Olariu et al., 2010), the mechanisms of mutation in PSC remain largely elusive. Here we show that, in contrast to somatic cells, human PSC have an increased susceptibility to DNA damage and mitotic errors, both of which are caused by heightened replication stress in PSC and this can be alleviated by culture with exogenous nucleosides. These results reflect the requirement for rapid replication of human PSC enabled by a truncated G1(Becker et al., 2006, Becker et al., 2010) that impairs the preparation of these cells for the ensuing DNA replication. A similar relationship has been shown in relation to chromosomal instability in cancer cells(Burrell et al., 2013, Wilhelm et al., 2019) but PSC differ by replication stress triggering apoptosis(Desmarais et al., 2012, Desmarais et al., 2016). Nevertheless, evasion of this response still leads to the appearance of genetic variants that are of concern for regenerative medicine. The inclusion of nucleosides into culture media greatly improves the efficiency of human PSC culture and minimises the acquisition of genomic damage.
al properties of tissues and their mechanical state is an important factor during development, disease, regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. Here we describe a microrheological measurement technique utilizing aggregates of microinjected ferromagnetic nickel particles to probe the viscoelastic properties of embryonic tissues. Quail embryos were cultured in a plastic incubator chamber located at the center of two pairs of crossed electromagnets. We estimate  the Young9s modulus of the ECM-rich region separating the mesoderm and endoderm in Hamburger Hamilton stage 6-10 quail embryos as 300  100 Pa. We found a pronounced viscoelastic behavior consistent with a Zener (standard generalized solid) model. The viscoelastic response is about 45% of the total response, with a characteristic relaxation time of 1.3 sec.
are evolutionarily conserved small, non-coding RNAs that regulate diverse biological processes. Due to their essential regulatory roles, microRNA biogenesis is tightly regulated, where protein factors are often found to interact with specific primary and precursor microRNAs for regulation. Here, using NMR relaxation dispersion spectroscopy and mutagenesis, we reveal that the precursor of oncogenic microRNA-21 exists as a pH-dependent ensemble that spontaneously reshuffles the secondary structure of the entire apical stem-loop region, including the Dicer cleavage site. We show that the alternative excited conformation transiently sequesters the bulged adenine into a non-canonical protonated A+-G mismatch, conferring a two-fold enhancement in Dicer processing over its ground conformational state. These results indicate that microRNA maturation efficiency may be encoded in the intrinsic dynamic ensemble of primary and precursor microRNAs, providing potential means of regulating microRNA biogenesis in response to environmental and cellular stimuli.
: Adipogenesis, the process whereby preadipocytes differentiate into mature adipocytes, is crucial for maintaining metabolic homeostasis. Cholesterol lowering statins increase type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk possibly by affecting adipogenesis and insulin resistance but the (epi)genetic mechanisms involved are unknown. Here, we char-acterised the effects of statin treatment on adipocyte differentiation using in vitro human preadipocytes cell model to identify putative effective genes. Results: Statin treatment during adipocyte differentiation caused a reduction in key genes involved in adipogenesis, such as ADIPOQ, GLUT4 and ABCG1. Using the Infinium Illumina 850K Methylation EPIC array, we found a significant hypomethylation of cg14566882, located in the promoter of the histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9) gene, in response to two types of statins (atorvastatin and mevastatin), which correlates with an increased HDAC9 mRNA expression. HDAC9 is a transcriptional repressor of the cholesterol efflux ABCG1 gene expression, which is epigenetically modified in obesity and prediabetic states. Thus, we assessed the putative impact of ABCG1 knock-down in mimicking the effect of statin in adipogenesis. ABCG1 KD reduced the expression of key genes involved in adipocyte differentiation and decreased insulin signalling and glucose uptake. In human blood cells from two cohorts, ABCG1 expression was impaired in response to statins, confirming that ABCG1 is in vivo targeted by these drugs.Conclusions: We identified an epigenetic link between adipogenesis and adipose tissue insulin resistance in the context of T2D risk associated with statin use, which has important implications as HDAC9 and ABCG1 are considered potential therapeutic targets for obesity and metabolic diseases.
ond to the mechanical properties of the extracellular matrix (ECM) through formation of focal adhesions (FAs), re-organization of the actin cytoskeleton and adjustment of cell contractility. These are energy-demanding processes, but a potential causality between mechanical cues and cellular (energy) metabolism remains largely unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that cytoskeletal reorganization and FA formation during cell spreading on stiff substrates lead to a drop in intracellular ATP levels, thereby activating AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). The latter then triggers rapid mitochondrial fragmentation and an increase in ATP levels to reinforce cell tension and regulate nuclear localization of YAP/TAZ and Runx2. Genetic ablation of AMPK Thr-172 phosphorylation lowered cellular ATP content and strongly reduced responses to substrate stiffness. Together, these findings reveal the importance of energy expenditure in regulating the mechanoresponse of cells, and point to AMPK as a key mediator of stem cell fate in response to ECM mechanics.
uplicated sequences are a common feature of structural variants (SVs) and copy number variants (CNVs). Analysis of CNVs containing inverted duplicated sequences using nanopore sequencing identified recurrent aberrant behavior characterized by incorrect and low confidence base calls that result from a systematic elevation in the current recorded by the sequencing pore. The coincidence of inverted duplicated sequences with catastrophic sequence failure suggests that secondary DNA structures may impair transit through the nanopore.
ld recognition plays a crucial role in discovering three-dimensional structure of proteins and protein functions. Several approaches have been employed for the prediction of protein folds. Some of these approaches are based on extracting features from protein sequences and using a strong classier. Feature extraction techniques generally utilize syntactical-based information, evolutionary-based information and physiochemical-based information to extract features. In recent years, Finding an efficient technique for integrating discriminate features have been received advancing attention. In this study, we integrate Auto-Cross-Covariance (ACC) and Separated dimer (SD) evolutionary feature extraction methods. The results features are scored by Information gain (IG) to dene and select several discriminated features. According to three benchmark datasets, DD, RDD and EDD, the results of the support vector machine (SVM) show more than 6% improvement in accuracy on these benchmark datasets
 inheritance, especially its biomedical and evolutionary significance, is an immensely interesting but highly controversial subject. Notably, a recent analysis of existing multi-omics has supported the mechanistic plausibility of epigenetic inheritance and its implications in disease and evolution. The evolutionary support stemmed from the specific finding that genes associated with cold induced inheritance and with latitudinal adaptation in mice are exceptionally common. Here, a similar gene set overlap analysis is presented that integrates cold induced inheritance with evolutionary adaptation and genetic canalization in cold environment in Drosophila. Genes showing differential expression in inheritance specifically overrepresent gene sets associated with differential and allele specific expression, though not with genome-wide genetic differentiation, in adaptation. On the other hand, the differentiated outliers uniquely overrepresent genes dysregulated by radicicol, a decanalization inducer. Both gene sets in turn exclusively show enrichment of genes that accumulate, in intended experimental lines,  de novo  mutations, a potential source of canalization. Successively, the three gene sets distinctively overrepresent genes exhibiting, between mutation accumulation lines, invariable expression, a potential signal for canalization. Sequentially, the four gene sets solely display enrichment of genes grouped in gene ontology under transcription factor activity, a signature of regulatory canalization. Cumulatively, the analysis suggests that epigenetic inheritance possibly contributes to evolutionary adaptation in the form of  cis  regulatory variations, with  trans  variations arising in the course of genetic canalization.
g how microtubules (MTs) are nucleated is essential for understanding how the cytoskeleton assembles. Yet, half a century after the discovery of MTs and -tubulin subunits and decades after the identification of the -tubulin ring complex (-TuRC) as the universal MT nucleator, the underlying mechanism largely remains a mystery. Using single molecule studies, we uncover that -TuRC nucleates a MT more efficiently than spontaneous assembly. The laterally interacting array of -tubulins on -TuRC facilitates the lateral association of -tubulins, while longitudinal affinity between :-tubulin is surprisingly weak. During nucleation, 3-4 -tubulin dimers bind stochastically to -TuRC on average until two of them create a lateral contact and overcome the nucleation barrier. Although -TuRC defines the nucleus, XMAP215 significantly increases reaction efficiency by facilitating -tubulin incorporation. In sum, we elucidate how MT initiation occurs from -TuRC and determine how it is regulated.
enic RNAi Project (TRiP), a Drosophila functional genomics platform at Harvard Medical School, was initiated in 2008 to generate and distribute a genome-scale collection of RNAi fly stocks. To date, the TRiP has generated &amp;gt;15,000 RNAi fly stocks. As this covers most Drosophila genes, we have largely transitioned to development of new resources based on CRISPR technology. Here, we present an update on our libraries of publicly available RNAi and CRISPR fly stocks, and focus on the TRiP-CRISPR overexpression (TRiP-OE) and TRiP-CRISPR knockout (TRiP-KO) collections. TRiP-OE stocks express sgRNAs targeting upstream of a gene transcription start site. Gene activation is triggered by co-expression of catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) fused to an activator domain, either VP64-p65-Rta (VPR) or Synergistic Activation Mediator (SAM). TRiP-KO stocks express one or two sgRNAs targeting the coding sequence of a gene or genes, allowing for generation of indels in both germline and somatic tissue. To date, we have generated more than 5,000 CRISPR-OE or -KO stocks for the community. These resources provide versatile, transformative tools for gene activation, gene repression, and genome engineering.
ormation is widely used to characterize dependence between biological signals, such as co-expression between genes or co-evolution between amino acids. However, measurement error of the biological signals is rarely considered in estimating mutual information. Measurement error is widespread and non-negligible in some cases. As a result, the distribution of the signals is blurred, and the mutual information may be biased when estimated using the blurred measurements. We derive a corrected estimator for mutual information that accounts for the distribution of measurement error. Our corrected estimator is based on the correction of the probability mass function (PMF) or probability density function (PDF, based on kernel density estimation). We prove that the corrected estimator is asymptotically unbiased in the (semi-) discrete case when the distribution of measurement error is known. We show that it reduces the estimation bias in the continuous case under certain assumptions. On simulated data, our corrected estimator leads to a more accurate estimation for mutual information when the sample size is not the limiting factor for estimating PMF or PDF accurately. We compare the uncorrected and corrected estimator on the gene expression data of TCGA breast cancer samples and show a difference in both the value and the ranking of estimated mutual information between the two estimators.
ion of Salmo salar has imposed strong selection for production traits since the 1970s. The domestication has also imposed a radical shift in diet. Whereas wild salmon eats invertebrates, crustaceans and fish, the dietary lipids in domestic feed has since 1990 gradually shifted from fish oil (FO) to vegetable oil (VO), causing a decrease intake of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA). We tested the hypothesis that this shift has induced domestication-specific features of lipid metabolism in a 96-day feeding trial of domesticated and wild salmon fed diets based on FO, VO or phospholipids (PL). We addressed this by sampling tissues central in fat uptake (pyloric caeca) and processing (liver) and quantifying RNA expression and fatty acid composition. Domesticated salmon grew faster than wild salmon, with higher gene expression in glucose and lipid metabolism pathways. The promoters of differentially expressed genes were enriched for transcription factors involved in circadian clock regulation. Domesticated salmon had lower expression of cry2 and nr1d1, genes involved in negative regulation of circadian rhythm, with possible implications for the diurnal cycle of feed ingestion and basal metabolic rate. Only wild salmon showed a significant impact on growth of VO versus PL or FO feed, whereas domesticated but not wild salmon upregulated key LC-PUFA synthesis genes fads2d5 and fads2d6a in response to VO diet. Domesticated salmon had higher LC-PUFA but lower 18:3n-3 and 18:2n-6 in liver when fed VO, suggesting that domesticated salmon can better compensate for dietary shortage of LC-PUFA compared to wild salmon.
ic platforms integrating phenotyping and genotyping approaches have the potential to advance the understanding of single cell genotype-to-phenotype correlations. These correlations can play a key role in tackling antibiotic heteroresistance, cancer cell heterogeneity, and other related fundamental problems. Herein, we report a novel platform that enables both high-throughput digital molecular detection and single-cell phenotypic analysis, utilizing nanoliter-sized biocompatible polyethylene glycol hydrogel beads produced by a convenient and disposable centrifugal droplet generation device. The hydrogel beads have been demonstrated enhanced thermal stability, and achieved uncompromised efficiencies in digital polymerase chain reaction, digital loop-mediated isothermal amplification, and single cell phenotyping. The crosslinked hydrogel network highlights the prospective linkage of various subsequent molecular analyses to address the genotypic differences between cellular subpopulations exhibiting distinct phenotypes. Our platform shows great potential for applications in clinical practice and medical research, and promises new perspectives in mechanism elucidation of environment-evolution interaction and other basic research areas.
intestinal tract has evolved in numerous ways to allow animals to optimally assimilate energy from different food sources. The morphology and physiology of the gut is plastic and can be greatly altered by diet in some animals. In this study, we investigate the evolution and plasticity of gastrointestinal tract morphology by comparing laboratory raised cave-adapted and river-adapted forms of the Mexican tetra, Astyanax mexicanus reared under different dietary conditions. In the wild, river-dwelling populations (surface fish) consume plants and insects throughout the year, while cave-dwelling populations (cavefish) live in a perpetually-dark environment dependent on nutrient-poor food brought in by bats or seasonal floods. We find that multiple cave populations converged on a reduced number of digestive appendages called pyloric caeca and that some cave populations have a lengthened gut while others have a shortened gut. Moreover, we identified differences in how gut morphology and proliferation of the epithelium respond to diet between surface fish and cavefish. Using a combination of quantitative genetic mapping, population genetics, and RNA sequencing we implicate molecular and genetic changes influencing cell proliferation, cell signaling, and immune system function in the evolution of gut morphology.
ctors such as Zelda help initiate zygotic transcription in Drosophila early embryos, but whether other factors support this dynamic process is unclear. Odd-paired (Opa), a zinc-finger transcription factor expressed at cellularization, controls transition of genes from pair-rule to segmental patterns along the anterior-posterior axis. Finding that Opa also regulates late expression through enhancer sog_Distal, along the dorso-ventral axis, we hypothesized that Opa acts as a general timing factor. Chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP-seq) confirmed Opa in vivo binding to sog_Distal but also identified widespread binding throughout the genome, comparable to Zelda. Furthermore, chromatin assays (ATAC-seq) demonstrate that Opa, like Zelda, influences chromatin accessibility genome-wide, suggesting both are pioneer factors with common as well as distinct targets. Lastly, embryos lacking opa exhibit widespread, late patterning defects spanning both axes. Collectively, these data suggest Opa, a general timing factor and likely a late-acting pioneer factor, heralds in a secondary wave of zygotic gene expression.
: Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critical for the extinction of drug-seeking. Expression of the Bdnf gene is highly regulated via interactions with non-coding RNA, which themselves are altered following drug exposure. Here we investigate whether a novel long non-coding RNA antisense to Bdnf prevents extinction of drug-seeking. METHODS: Strand-specific RNA sequencing identified a novel long non-coding RNA antisense to exon IV of the Bdnf gene in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex of 8 adult male rats. We then assessed asBdnf-IV expression using strand-specific reverse transcription and quantitative polymerase chain reaction following acquisition, extinction or abstinence from intravenous nicotine self-administration (N = 116). A functional role of the asBdnf-IV in extinction of nicotine-seeking was established by infusing gapmer oligonucleotides into the infralimbic cortex prior to extinction and testing for the effect of these infusions on reinstatement and reacquisition of nicotine-seeking (N = 36). RESULTS: RNA sequencing identified the presence of a novel long non-coding RNA antisense to exon IV of the Bdnf gene (asBdnf-IV). Expression of asBdnf-IV was elevated following intravenous nicotine self-administration but not experimenter-administered nicotine. Elevated asBdnf-IV persisted across abstinence and to a greater extent following extinction training, suggesting an interaction between abstinence and extinction learning. In support of this, knockdown of the asBdnf-IV across extinction, but not abstinence, significantly attenuated nicotine-primed reinstatement of nicotine-seeking. CONCLUSIONS: asBdnf-IV accumulates in the infralimbic cortex across self-administration training, interferes with the inhibitory learning that underpins extinction of drug-seeking, and predisposes animals to drug relapse.
n coded by the Tp53 gene is considered as one of the most intensively researched protein and mainly due to its role as a tumor suppressor, it acts as a tumor suppressor by carrying out two biologically complex processes namely Cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, In The oncogenic Y220C mutant p53 tyrosine, is replaced by cysteine at 220th residue of the DNA binding Domain which causes the formation of a surface crevice and leads to the destabilization and denaturation of the protein, as a result, the protein degrades at room temperature. In this work we carry out intensive Molecular Dynamic Simulations and Molecular Docking Studies to understand the structural dynamics of wild type p53 and changes the occurs in the mutant protein and also try to design lead against the druggable crevice and at the end of our study we used fragment-based optimization to come up with lead molecules which can act as scaffold for further drug development process.
is a blind fitting process by which organisms, over generations, adapt to the niches of an ever-changing environment. Does the mammalian brain use similar brute-force fitting processes to learn how to perceive and act upon the world? Recent advances in training deep neural networks has exposed the power of optimizing millions of synaptic weights to map millions of observations along ecologically relevant objective functions. This class of models has dramatically outstripped simpler, more intuitive models, operating robustly in real-life contexts spanning perception, language, and action coordination. These models do not learn an explicit, human-interpretable representation of the underlying structure of the data; rather, they use local computations to interpolate over task-relevant manifolds in a high-dimensional parameter space. Furthermore, counterintuitively, over-parameterized models, similarly to evolutionary processes, can be simple and parsimonious as they provide a versatile, robust solution for learning a diverse set of functions. In contrast to traditional scientific models, where the ultimate goal is interpretability, over-parameterized models eschew interpretability in favor of solving real-life problems or tasks. We contend that over-parameterized blind fitting presents a radical challenge to many of the underlying assumptions and practices in computational neuroscience and cognitive psychology. At the same time, this shift in perspective informs longstanding debates and establishes unexpected links with evolution, ecological psychology, and artificial life.
parrow,  Melospiza melodia , is one of the most widely distributed species of songbirds found in North America. It has been used in a wide range of behavioral and ecological studies. This species pronounced morphological and behavioral diversity across populations makes it a favorable candidate in several areas of biomedical research. We have generated a high-quality  de novo  genome assembly of  M. melodia   using Illumina short read sequences from genomic and  in vitro  proximity-ligation libraries. The assembled genome is 978.3 Mb, with a coverage of 24.9X, N50 scaffold size of 5.6 Mb and N50 contig size of 31.7 Kb. Genes within our genome assembly are largely complete, with 87.5% full-length genes present out of a set of 4,915 universal single-copy orthologs present in most avian genomes. We annotated our genome assembly and constructed 15,086 gene models, a majority of which have high homology to related birds,  Taeniopygia guttata  and  Junco hyemalis . In total, 83% of the annotated genes are assigned with putative functions. Furthermore, only ~7% of the genome is found to be repetitive; these regions and other non-coding functional regions are also identified. The high-quality  M. melodia  genome assembly and annotations we report will serve as a valuable resource for facilitating studies on genome structure and evolution that can contribute to biomedical research and serve as a reference in population genomic and comparative genomic studies of closely related species.
tein (P-gp; also known as MDR1 or ABCB1) is an ATP-driven multidrug transporter that extrudes various hydrophobic toxic compounds to the extracellular space. P-gp consists of two transmembrane domains (TMDs) that form the substrate translocation pathway and two nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) that bind and hydrolyze ATP. P-gp takes at least two states during transport; the inward-facing (pre-drug transport) conformation, in which the two NBDs are separated and the two TMDs are open to the intracellular side, and the outward-facing (post-drug transport) conformation, in which the NBDs are dimerized and the TMDs are slightly open to the extracellular side. ATP binding and hydrolysis cause conformational changes between the inward-facing and the outward-facing conformations to translocate substrates across the membrane. However, it remains unclear how ATP is used during these conformational changes in living cells. In this study, we investigated the role of ATP binding and hydrolysis during the conformational changes of human P-gp in living cells by using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). We show that ATP binding causes the conformational change to the outward-facing state and that ATP hydrolysis and subsequent release of -phosphate from both NBDs allow the outward-facing state to return to the original inward-facing state.
ydratase (FH) is an enzyme of the citric acid (TCA) cycle that is responsible for reversibly catalysing the conversion between fumarate and malate. FH loss and subsequent buildup of the oncometabolite fumarate causes hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma. We sought to explore the mutational landscape of FH in silico, to predict the functional effects of many detected mutations, and categorise detected but un-characterised mutations in human populations. Using mutational energy predicting tools such as Rosetta and FoldX we can accurately predict mutations and mutational hotspots with high disruptive capability. Furthermore, through performing molecular dynamics simulations we show that hinge regions of the protein can be stabilized or destabilized by mutations, with new mechanistic implications of the consequences on the binding affinity of the enzyme for its substrates. We can additionally categorise a large majority of mutations and potential mutations into functional groups. This allows us to predict which detected mutations in the human population are likely to be loss-of-function, and therefore predispose patients to papillary renal carcinoma through considering only mutations to the protein binding site, hinges, and those that are buried deep within the protein. We additionally link mutation data to publicly available metabolomics data, and show that we can accurately predict which mutations in cancer cell lines are functionally relevant.
 extracellular traps (NETs) evolved as a unique effector mechanism contributing to resistance against infection that can also promote tissue damage in inflammatory conditions. Malaria infection can trigger NET release, but the mechanisms and consequences of NET formation in this context remain poorly characterized. Here we show, similarly to previous reports, that patients suffering from severe malaria had increased amounts of circulating DNA and increased neutrophil elastase (NE) levels in plasma. We used cultured erythrocytes and isolated human neutrophils to show that Plasmodium-infected red blood cells release MIF, which in turn caused NET formation by neutrophils in a mechanism dependent on the C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4). NET production was dependent on histone citrulination by PAD4 and independent of reactive oxygen species (ROS), myeloperoxidase (MPO) or NE. In vitro, NETs functioned to restrain parasite dissemination in a mechanism dependent on MPO and NE activities. Finally, C57/B6 mice infected with  P. berghei  ANKA, a well-established model of cerebral malaria, presented high amounts of circulating DNA, while treatment with DNAse increased parasitemia and accelerated mortality, indicating a role for NETs in resistance against Plasmodium infection.
idemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly contagious pathogenic virus that causes severe diarrhea and dehydration in pigs of all ages. Deoxynivalenol (DON), the most abundant trichothecene in food and feed, causes vomit and diarrhea in animals and human. However, whether DON exposure could affect PEDV infection remains unknown. Herein, we investigated the impacts of DON on entry and replication of PEDV, morbidity situation of piglets and the mechanisms involved. In vivo, twenty-seven piglets infected naturally with PEDV were randomly divided into three groups, receiving the basal diet containing 0, 750 and 1500 g/kg DON, respectively. We observed significant increases in the diarrhea rates, the villous injury of jejunums and the PEDV proliferation of duodenum, jejunum, ileum and mesenterium of piglets in experimental groups compared with control. Additionally, the autophagosome-like vesicles and the autophagy-related protein expressions were also increased in experimental groups. In vitro, we observed that, approximately 2 hrs post-infection, 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 M DON promoted PEDV entry (P &amp;lt; 0.05) in IPEC-J2s and resulted in tight junction protein occludin internalization. Knockdown of occludin and CRISPRCas9mediated knockout of LC3B indicated a vital role of autophagy-induced occludin internalization in DON-promoted PEDV entry. We also observed that, 24 hrs post-infection, a significant increase in PEDV replication after 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 M DON treatment, along with the induction of a complete autophagy. Specifically, deletion of LC3B indicated a crucial role of autophagy in DON-promoted PEDV replication. Pretreatment with SB202190, a p38 signaling inhibitor, abolished the induction of autophagy. Furthermore, downregulation of type I interferon revealed that DON contributed PEDV to escape innate immune. Mechanistically, DON-caused innate immune escape was related to the upregulation of LC3B, which further inhibited STING phosphorylation. Taken together, DON could promote PEDV infection by inducing occludin internalization and innate immune escape via triggering p38-mediated autophagy.
 identify new drugs for therapeutic and preventive treatments against parasitic nematodes have gained increasing interest with expanding pathogen omics databases and drug databases from which new anthelmintic compounds might be identified. Here, a novel approach focused on integrating a pan-Nematoda multi-omics data targeted to a specific nematode organ system (the intestinal tract) with evidence-based filtering and chemogenomic screening was undertaken. Based on&amp;nbsp;de novo&amp;nbsp;computational target prioritization of the 3,564 conserved intestine genes in&amp;nbsp;A. suum, exocytosis was identified as a high priority pathway, and predicted inhibitors of exocytosis were tested using the large roundworm (Ascaris suum&amp;nbsp;larval stages), a filarial worm (Brugia pahangi&amp;nbsp;adult and L3), a whipworm (Trichuris muris&amp;nbsp;adult), and the non-parasitic nematode&amp;nbsp;Caenorhabditis elegans. 10 of 13 inhibitors were found to cause rapid immotility in&amp;nbsp;A. suum&amp;nbsp;L3 larvae, and five inhibitors were effective against the three phylogenetically diverse parasitic nematode species, indicating potential for a broad spectrum anthelmintics. Several distinct pathologic phenotypes were resolved related to molting, motility, or intestinal cell and tissue damage using conventional and novel histologic methods. Pathologic profiles characteristic for each inhibitor will guide future research to uncover mechanisms of the anthelmintic effects and improve on drug designs. This progress firmly validates the focus on intestinal cell biology as a useful resource to develop novel anthelmintic strategies.
cquired infections are responsible for morbidity and mortality worldwide.  Acinetobacter spp  . infections are particularly notorious for complicating patient management in ICU settings. Extremely high mortality rates are associated with  Acinetobacter  infections because of their resistance to first- and second-line drugs. There is imminent need to develop infections control systems that are specific and environment friendly. Here, we report a proof-of-concept anti-  Acinetobacter spp  . bacteriophage-based infection control assay that is very target specific as well as innocuous to environment. extensively drug resistant (XDR)  Acinetobacter baumannii  strain was inoculated at various solid surfaces. A bacteriophage, enriched in the same strain, was applied on the inoculated surfaces. Phenol (carbolic acid) was used as a positive control. We show that bacteriophages can be used as infection control agents. In our assay, they killed XDR  Acinetobacter baumannii  present on solid surfaces. Our bacteriophage was extremely effective at reducing the CFU of inoculated strain to almost undetectable levels.
:&amp;nbsp;Scrub typhus is a severely ignored tropical disease and a leading cause of undifferentiated febrile illness worldwide caused by infection of an obligate intracellular bacteria&amp;nbsp;Orientia tsutsugamushi. It has been rapidly expanding in South Asian countries, although clear epidemiological information is not available from Nepal. After the 2015 earthquake in Nepal, a sudden upsurge in scrub typhus cases was reported. The objective of this study was to investigate scrub typhus and its causative agents in human, rodent and chigger mites to better understand the ongoing transmission ecology.Methods:&amp;nbsp;Scrub typhus cases with confirmed diagnosis throughout the country were included in the analysis. Studies were concentrated&amp;nbsp;in the&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Chitwan district, the site of a major outbreak in 2016. Additional country-wide data from 2015 to 2017 was made available from the government database to analyse the disease distribution using geographical mapping.Results:&amp;nbsp;During 2015-2017,&amp;nbsp;1,239 scrub typhus cases were confirmed with the largest outbreak occurring in 2016 with 831 (67.1%) cases.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;The remainder 267 cases were reported in 2017. The case fatality rate was 5.7% in 2015 and declined to 1.1% in 2017. Nationwide outbreak of scrub typhus was identified as the cases were found from 52 of the 75 districts of Nepal.&amp;nbsp;A seasonal trend was observed with a peak during August and September (p = 0.01). In addition to the human cases, the presence of&amp;nbsp;O. tsutsugamushi&amp;nbsp;was also confirmed in rodents and chigger mites from the outbreak areas of southern Nepal.&amp;nbsp;Conclusion:&amp;nbsp;The detection&amp;nbsp;of&amp;nbsp;O. tsutsugamushi&amp;nbsp;in&amp;nbsp;human,&amp;nbsp;rodent, and chigger&amp;nbsp;mites from outbreak locations and wide-spread reports of scrub typhus throughout the country over two years&amp;nbsp;confirms the&amp;nbsp;ongoing&amp;nbsp;transmission&amp;nbsp;of&amp;nbsp;O. tsutsugamushi&amp;nbsp;with a&amp;nbsp;firmly established ecology&amp;nbsp;in Nepal. The&amp;nbsp;country9s&amp;nbsp;health system needs to be strengthened for systematic surveillance, early outbreaks detection, and immediate response actions including treatment and preventive&amp;nbsp;measures.
teractions can result in changes to the abundance and distribution of habitat-forming species that dramatically reduce ecosystem health and functioning. Nowhere may this be as dramatic as in the coastal zone of the Aleutian Archipelago, where overgrazing by herbivorous sea urchins that began in the 1980s resulted in widespread deforestation of the region9s kelp forests. Here we show that this deforestation resulted in decreased macroalgal and invertebrate abundance and diversity, increased benthic irradiances, and reduced rates of gross primary production and respiration by the ecosystem. These opposing metabolic processes remain in balance, however, which resulted in little-to-no changes to net ecosystem production. These patterns were consistent across nine islands spanning more than 1000 kilometers of the archipelago. In light of the worldwide declines in kelp forests observed in recent decades, our findings suggest that marine deforestation profoundly affects the health of coastal ecosystems and how they function.
urface heparan sulfate proteoglycan Syndecan-1 acts as a mediator of signals between the extracellular matrix and cells with high significance during pathogenesis. Besides binding a wide variety of molecules (e.g. growth factors, cytokines, matrix molecules) that play a role in essential cellular processes, Syndecan-1 is able to interact with OPG, one of the major regulators of osteoclastogenesis. Therefore, we investigated the influence of endogenous Syndecan-1 in murine osteoblastic and osteoclastic cells during local bone-cell-communication via the RANKL/OPG axis  in vitro and  the impact of Syndecan-1 deficiency on bone development and aging in an  in vivo  mouse model.During aging, serum concentration of Syndecan-1 increased in wild type mice. On bone surfaces, expression of RANKL in osteocytes was more prevalent in aged Syndecan-1 deficient mice leading to higher numbers of osteoclasts. However, bone resorption appeared to be decreased in Syndecan-1 deficient mice. The potential of osteoblasts to induce osteoclastogenesis was characterized by a switch of OPG towards RANKL production and can be induced in osteoblasts by prostaglandin E2 and Vitamin D3. This switch also influenced Syndecan-1 expression on transcriptional and protein level. The lack of Syndecan-1 on osteoblasts in co-cultures of osteoblasts and osteoclast impaired the development of osteoclasts by changing cell-communication via the ratio of OPG and RANKL.Syndecan-1 influences local bone cell communication during physiological bone remodelling. Syndecan-1 deficiency alters the release of OPG and RANKL by osteoblasts and osteocytes, and affects the differentiation of osteoclasts  in vitro  and  in vivo  in an age-dependent manner in healthy organisms. Syndecan-1 might therefore be of high impact as a new modulator of bone-cell-communication during bone regeneration or bone diseases where Syndecan-1 expression is known to be even more prevalent.
diasis is a prevailing helminth infection ubiquitous in tropical and subtropical areas. However, prevalence data are scarce in migrant populations.This study aims at evaluating the prevalence of S. stercoralis at hospital level in migrant populations or long term travellers being attended in out-patient and in-patient units as part of a systematic screening implemented in 6 Spanish hospitals. &amp;nbsp;A cross-sectional study was conducted and systematic screening for S. stercoralis infection using serological tests was offered to all eligible participants. The overall seroprevalence of S. stercoralis was 9.04% (95% confidence interval [95%CI] 7.76 -10.31). The seroprevalence of people with a risk of infection acquired in Africa and Latin America was 9.35% (95%CI 7.01-11.69), 9.22% (7.5-10.93), respectively. The number of individuals coming from Asian countries was significantly smaller and the overall prevalence in these countries was 2.9% (95%CI -0.3; -6.2). There was only one case (1/14 (7.14%) from an individual from East European countries. The seroprevalence in units attending potentially immunosuppressed patients was significantly lower (5.64%) compared with the seroprevalence in other units of the hospital (10.20%) or Tropical diseases units (13.33%) (p&amp;lt;0.001). Conclusions: We report a hospital-based systematic screening of strongyloidiasis with a seroprevalence of almost 10% in a mobile population coming from endemic areas suggesting the need of implementing strongyloidiasis screening in hospitalized patients coming from endemic areas, particularly if they are at risk of immunosuppression.
ion is comprised of several substances, including particulate matter (PM). Exposure to air pollution may trigger alterations in DNA methylation thus modifying gene expression patterns. This phenomenon is likely to mediate the relationship between exposure to air pollution and adverse health effects. The purpose of this study was analyzing the effects of exposure to PM  2.5  during pregnancy or lactation and whether it would cause multigenerational epigenetic alterations in the promoter region of the genes  Pdx1  and  NEUROG3  within mouse pancreatic islets. Our results show that maternal exposure to PM  2.5  led to an elevation in blood glucose levels within the two following generations (F1 and F2). There was also an increase in DNA methylation in the aforementioned promoter regions accompanied by reduced gene expression in generations F1 and F2 upon F0 exposure to PM  2.5  during pregnancy. These data suggest that maternal exposure to PM  2.5  from air pollution, particularly during pregnancy, may lead to a multigenerational and lifelong negative impact on glucose homeostasis mediated by an increase in DNA methylation within the promoter region of the genes  Pdx1  and  NEUROG3  in pancreatic islets.
ic-based assays have become effective high-throughput approaches to&amp;nbsp;examining replicative aging of budding yeast cells. Deep learning may offer an efficient&amp;nbsp;way to analyze a large number of images collected from microfluidic experiments.Here,&amp;nbsp;we compare three deep learning architectures to classify microfluidic time-lapsed&amp;nbsp;images&amp;nbsp;of dividing yeast cells into categories that represent different stages in the yeast&amp;nbsp;replicative aging process. We found that convolutional neural networks outperformedcapsule networks in terms of accuracy, precision, and recall. The capsule networks&amp;nbsp;had&amp;nbsp;the most robust performance at detecting one specific category of cell images. An&amp;nbsp;ensemble of three best-fitted single-architecture models achieves the highest overall&amp;nbsp;accuracy, precision, and recall due to complementary performances. In addition,&amp;nbsp;extending classification classes and augmentation of the training dataset can improve&amp;nbsp;the predictions of the biological categories in our study. This work lays a useful&amp;nbsp;framework for sophisticated deep-learning processing of microfluidics-based assays of&amp;nbsp;yeast replicative aging.
ic profiling is a computational method to predict genes involved in the same biological process by identifying protein families which tend to be jointly lost or retained across the tree of life. Phylogenetic profiling has customarily been more widely used with prokaryotes than eukaryotes, because the method is thought to require many diverse genomes. There are now many eukaryotic genomes available, but these are considerably larger, and typical phylogenetic profiling methods require quadratic time or worse in the number of genes. We introduce a fast, scalable phylogenetic profiling approach entitled HogProf, which leverages hierarchical orthologous groups for the construction of large profiles and locality-sensitive hashing for efficient retrieval of similar profiles. We show that the approach outperforms Enhanced Phylogenetic Tree, a phylogeny-based method, and use the tool to reconstruct networks and query for interactors of the kinetochore complex as well as conserved proteins involved in sexual reproduction: Hap2, Spo11 and Gex1. HogProf enables large-scale phylogenetic profiling across the three domains of life, and will be useful to predict biological pathways among the hundreds of thousands of eukaryotic species that will become available in the coming few years. HogProf is available at  https://github.com/DessimozLab/HogProf  .
le has been withdrawn by bioRxiv because it was submitted with false information.
ium bovis is the main causative agent of zoonotic tuberculosis in humans and frequently devastates livestock and wildlife worldwide. Previous studies suggested the existence of genetic groups of M. bovis strains based on limited DNA markers (a.k.a. clonal complexes), and the evolution and ecology of this pathogen has been only marginally explored at the global level. We have screened over 2,600 publicly available M. bovis genomes and newly sequenced two wildlife M. bovis strains, gathering 823 genomes from 21 countries and 21 host-species, including humans, to complete a phylogenomic analyses. We propose the existence of four distinct global lineages of M. bovis (Lb1, Lb2, Lb3 and Lb4) underlying the current disease distribution. These lineages are not fully represented by clonal complexes and are dispersed based on geographic location rather than host species. Our data divergence analysis agreed with previous studies reporting independent archeological data of ancient M. bovis [(South Siberian infected skeletons at ~2,000 years BP (before present)] and indicates that extant M. bovis originated during the Roman period, subsequently dispersing across the world with the discovery and settlement of the New World and Oceania, directly influenced by trades among countries.
detection of somatic copy number alterations (SCNA) in cancer genomes is confounded by &quot;waviness&quot; in read depth data. We present dryclean, a signal processing algorithm to optimize SCNA detection in whole genome (WGS) and targeted sequencing platforms through foreground detection and background subtraction of read depth data. Application of dryclean to WGS demonstrates that WGS waviness is driven by replication timing. Re-analysis of thousands of tumor profiles reveals that dryclean provides superior detection of biologically relevant SCNAs relative to state-of-the-art algorithms. Applied to  in silico  tumor dilutions, dryclean improves the sensitivity of relapse detection 10-fold relative to current standards.
9 has been widely adopted as the basic toolkit for precise genome-editing and engineering in various organisms. Alternative to Cas9, Cas12 or Cpf1 uses a simple crRNA as a guide and expands the protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) sequence to TTTN. This unique PAM sequence of Cpf1 may significantly increase the on-target editing efficiency due to lower chance of Cpf1 misreading the PAMs on a high GC genome. To demonstrate the utility of CRISPR-Cpf1, we have optimized the CRISPR-Cpf1 system and achieved high-editing efficiency for two counter-selectable markers in the industrially-relevant oleaginous yeast  Yarrowia lipolytica : arginine permease (93% for CAN1) and orotidine 59-phosphate decarboxylase (~96% for URA3). Both mutations were validated by indel mutation sequencing. For the first time, we further expanded this toolkit to edit three sulfur house-keeping genetic markers (40%-75% for MET2, MET6 and MET25), which confers yeast distinct colony color changes due to the formation of PbS (lead sulfide) precipitates. Different from Cas9, we demonstrated that the crRNA transcribed from a standard type II RNA promoter was sufficient to guide Cpf1 endonuclease activity. Furthermore, modification of the crRNA with 39polyUs facilitates the faster maturation and folding of crRNA and improve the genome editing efficiency. We also achieved multiplexed genome editing, and the editing efficiency reached 75%-83% for duplex genomic targets (CAN1-URA3 and CAN1-MET25) and 41.7% for triplex genomic targets (CAN1-URA3-MET25). Taken together, this work expands the genome-editing toolbox for oleaginous yeast species and may accelerate our ability to engineer oleaginous yeast for both biotechnological and biomedical applications.
: Proteogenomics integrates genomics, transcriptomics and mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics data to identify novel protein sequences arising from gene and transcript sequence variants. Proteogenomic data analysis requires integration of disparate omic software tools, as well as customized tools to view and interpret results. The flexible Galaxy platform has proven valuable for proteogenomic data analysis. Here, we describe a novel Multi-omics Visualization Platform (MVP) for organizing, visualizing and exploring proteogenomic results, adding a critically needed tool for data exploration and interpretation.Findings: MVP is built as an HTML Galaxy plugin, primarily based on Javascript. Via the Galaxy API, MVP uses SQlite databases as input -- a custom datatype (mzSQlite) containing MS-based peptide identification information, a variant annotation table, and a coding sequence table. Users can interactively filter identified peptides based on sequence and data quality metrics, view annotated peptide MS data, visualize protein-level information, along with genomic coordinates. Peptides that pass the user-defined thresholds can be sent back to Galaxy via the API for further analysis; processed data and visualizations can also be saved and shared. MVP leverages the Integrated Genomics Viewer JavaScript (IGVjs) framework, enabling interactive visualization of peptides and corresponding transcript and genomic coding information within the MVP interface.Conclusions: MVP provides a powerful, extensible platform for automated, interactive visualization of proteogenomics results within the Galaxy environment, adding a unique and critically needed tool for empowering exploration and interpretation of results. The platform is extensible, providing a basis for further development of new functionalities for proteogenomic data visualization.
in the X linked MECP2 gene are responsible for Rett syndrome (RTT), a severe neurological disorder for which there is no treatment. Several studies have linked the loss of MeCP2 function to alterations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, but non-specific overexpression of BDNF only partially improves the phenotype of Mecp2 deficient mice, which suggests we need to identify cellular pathways that selectively enhance BDNF signaling in appropriate neuronal circuits. We and others have previously shown that Huntingtin (HTT) scaffolds molecular motor complexes, transports BDNF-containing vesicles, and is under-expressed in Mecp2 knock-out brains. Here we demonstrate that promoting HTT phosphorylation at Ser421, either by a phospho mimetic mutation or inhibition of the phosphatase calcineurin, restored endogenous BDNF axonal transport in vitro, increased striatal BDNF availability and synaptic connectivity in vivo, and improved the phenotype and the survival of Mecp2 knockout mice even though treatments were initiated only after the mice had already developed symptoms. Stimulation of endogenous cellular pathways may thus be a promising approach for the treatment of RTT patients.
min (NPM1) is a multifunctional histone chaperone that can activate RNA Polymerase II-driven chromatin transcription. Acetylation of NPM1 by acetyltransferase p300 has been shown to further enhance its transcription activation potential. Moreover, its total and acetylated pools are increased in oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, the role of NPM1 or its acetylated form (AcNPM1) in transcriptional regulation in cells is not fully elucidated. Using ChIP-seq analyses, we show that AcNPM1 co-occupies marks of active transcription at promoters and DNase I hypersensitive sites at enhancers. Moreover, NPM1 interacts with a multitude of proteins involved in transcription, including RNA Pol II, general transcription factors, mediator subunits, histone acetyltransferase complexes, and chromatin remodelers. Moreover, its histone chaperone also contributes to transcriptional activation. We further show that AcNPM1 regulates key genes required for proliferation, migration and invasion potential of oral cancer cells and knockdown of NPM1 mitigates these processes in cells as well as orthotopic tumors in mice. Collectively, these results establish that AcNPM1 functions as a coactivator and regulates the expression of key genes involved in oral tumorigenesis.
s differ in their response to environmental stimuli, but the stability of individualized behaviors and their associated changes in brain plasticity are poorly understood. We developed a novel model of enriched environment to longitudinally monitor 40 inbred mice exploring 35 connected cages over periods of three to six months. We show that behavioral individuality that emerged during the first three months of environmental enrichment persisted when mice were withdrawn from the enriched environment for three additional months. Behavioral trajectories were associated with stable inter-individual differences in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and persistent epigenetic effects on neuronal plasticity genes in the hippocampus. Using genome-wide DNA methylation sequencing, we show that one third of the DNA methylation changes were maintained after withdrawal from the enriched environment. Our results suggest that, even under the most constraint conditions controlling genes and environment, early-life experiences result in lasting individualized changes in behavior and brain plasticity.
l Seal (Leptonychotes weddelli) represents a remarkable example of adaptation to diving among marine mammals. This species is capable of diving &amp;gt;900 m deep and remaining underwater for more than 60 minutes. A number of key physiological specializations have been identified, including the low levels of aerobic, lipid-based metabolism under hypoxia, significant increase in oxygen storage in blood and muscle; high blood volume and extreme cardiovascular control. These adaptations have been linked to increased abundance of key proteins, suggesting an important, yet still understudied role for gene reprogramming. In this study, we investigate the possibility that post-transcriptional gene regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) has contributed to the adaptive evolution of diving capacities in the Weddell Seal. Using small RNA data across 4 tissues (cortex, heart, muscle and plasma), in 3 biological replicates, we generate the first miRNA annotation in this species, consisting of 559 high confidence, manually curated miRNA loci. Evolutionary analyses of miRNA gain and loss highlight a high number of Weddell seal specific miRNAs. 490 miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE) among tissues, whereas 83 miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE) across all tissues between pups and adults and 221 miRNAs demonstrated developmental changes in specific tissues only. mRNA targets of these altered miRNAs identify possible protective mechanisms in individual tissues, particularly relevant to hypoxia tolerance, anti-apoptotic pathways, and nitric oxide signal transduction. Novel, lineage-specific miRNAs associated with developmental changes target genes with roles in angiogenesis and vasoregulatory signaling. Altogether, we provide an overview of miRNA composition and evolution in the Weddell seal, and the first insights into their possible role in the specialization to diving.
-trait Bayesian LASSO (MBL) for genome-based analysis and prediction of quantitative traits is presented and applied to two real data sets. The data-generating model is a multivariate linear Bayesian regression on possibly a huge number of molecular markers, and with a Gaussian residual distribution posed. Each (one per marker) of the T x 1 vectors of regression coefficients (T: number of traits) is assigned the same T-variate Laplace prior distribution, with a null mean vector and unknown scale matrix SIGMA. The multivariate prior reduces to that of the standard univariate Bayesian LASSO when T=1. The covariance matrix of the residual distribution is assigned a multivariate Jeffreys prior and SIGMA is given an inverse-Wishart prior. The unknown quantities in the model are learned using a Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling scheme constructed using a scale-mixture of normal distributions representation. MBL is demonstrated in a bivariate context employing two publicly available data sets using a bivariate genomic best linear unbiased prediction model (GBLUP) for benchmarking results. The first data set is one where wheat grain yields in two different environments are treated as distinct traits. The second data set comes from genotyped Pinus trees with each individual was measured for two traits, rust bin and gall volume. In MBL, the bivariate marker effects are shrunk differentially, i.e., &quot;short&quot; vectors are more strongly shrunk towards the origin than in GBLUP; conversely, &quot;long&quot; vectors are shrunk less. A predictive comparison was carried out as well where, in wheat, the comparators of MBL where bivariate GBLUP and bivariate Bayes C, a variable selection procedure. A training-testing layout was used, with 100 random reconstructions of training and testing sets. For the wheat data, all methods produced similar predictions. In Pinus, MBL gave better predictions than either a Bayesian bivariate GBLUP or the single trait Bayesian LASSO. MBL has been implemented in the Julia language package JWAS and is now available for the scientific community to explore with different traits, species, and environments. It is well known that there is no universally best prediction machine and MBL represents a new piece in the armamentarium for genome-enabled analysis and prediction of complex traits.
materials (RM)-assisted Rayleigh-Gans-Debye approximation (rm-RGDA) has been developed and used to in situ determine the size and thickness of the adlayer on the particles in solution. The particle size determined by rm-RGDA is quite close to that measured by electron microscopy but significantly smaller than that measured by DLS. The BSA adlayer absorbed on PS50, PS100 and SiO2 NPs is 3.3, 0.9 and 1.2 nm, respectively, and close to those observed by SEM, which is 4.6, 1.3 and 3.8 nm, respectively. The FTIR analysis results show that the BSA absorbed on larger particles or hydroxyl-abundant surface, e.g. PS100 and SiO2 NPs can lose its secondary structure, e.g. -helix, to a great extent and that absorbed on a more curve surface, e.g. smaller PS50 particles can largely preserve its secondary structure as its free state. The measurement results show the curvature of the NPs is closely related to the structure change of the adsorbed protein. This method provide a facile and new approach to measure the size and its adlayer change of the hybrid and core-shell structured nanoparticles in a wide range of wavelength.
ion of muscle forces during motion can help to understand motor control, assess pathological movement, diagnose neuromuscular disorders, or estimate joint loads. Difficulty of in vivo measurement made computational analysis become a common alternative in which, as several muscles serve each degree of freedom, the muscle redundancy problem must be solved. Unlike static optimization (SO), synergy optimization (SynO) couples muscle activations across all time frames, thereby altering estimated muscle co-contraction. This study explores whether the use of a muscle synergy structure within a static optimization framework improves prediction of muscle activations during walking. A motion/force/EMG gait analysis was performed on five healthy subjects. A musculoskeletal model of the right leg actuated by 43 Hill-type muscles was scaled to each subject and used to calculate joint moments, muscle-tendon kinematics and moment arms. Muscle activations were then estimated using SynO with two to six synergies and traditional SO, and these estimates were compared with EMG measurements. SynO neither improved SO prediction of experimental activation patterns nor provided SO exact matching of joint moments. Finally, synergy analysis was performed on SO estimated activations, being found that the reconstructed activations produced poor matching of experimental activations and joint moments. As conclusion, it can be said that, although SynO did not improve prediction of muscle activations during gait, its reduced dimensional control space could be beneficial for applications such as functional electrical stimulation (FES) or motion control and prediction.
us root (AR) formation at the base of stem cuttings determines the efficiency of clonal propagation for woody plants. Many endogenous and environmental factors influence AR formation. However, our knowledge about the regulation of AR development by mitochondrial metabolism in plants is very limited. Here we identified Populus-specific miR476a as a novel regulator of wound-induced adventitious rooting via orchestrating mitochondrial homeostasis in poplar. MiR476a exhibited inducible expression during AR formation and directly targets several Restorer of Fertility like (RFL) genes encoding mitochondrion-localized pentatricopeptide repeat proteins. Genetic modification of miR476-RFL expression revealed the miR476/RFL-mediated dynamic regulation of mitochondrial homeostasis on AR formation in transgenic poplar. Furthermore, mitochondrial perturbation via exogenous chemical inhibitor validated that the miR476a/RFL-directed AR formation depended on mitochondrial regulation though modulating the auxin pathway. Our results established a miRNA-directed mitochondrion-auxin signaling cascade required for AR development, providing novel insights into the understanding of mitochondrial regulation on plant developmental plasticity.
 cells such as terminally differentiated postmitotic neurons and glia must cope with the accumulation of damage over the course of an animals lifespan. How long-lived cells deal with ageing-related damage is poorly understood. Here we show that polyploid cells accumulate in the ageing adult fly brain and that polyploidy protects against DNA damage-induced cell death. Multiple types of neurons and glia that are diploid at eclosion, become polyploid with age in the adult Drosophila brain. The optic lobes exhibit the highest levels of polyploidy, associated with an elevated DNA damage response in this brain region with age. Inducing oxidative stress or exogenous DNA damage leads to an earlier onset of polyploidy, and polyploid cells in the adult brain are more resistant to DNA damage-induced cell death than diploid cells. Our results suggest polyploidy may serve a protective role for neurons and glia in ageing Drosophila melanogaster brains.
physicochemical properties of cell membranes such as fluidity sensitively depend on fluctuating environmental factors including temperature, pH or diet. To counteract these disturbances, living cells universally adapt their lipid composition in return. In contrast to eukaryotic cells, bacteria tolerate surprisingly drastic changes in their lipid composition while retaining viability, thus making them a more tractable model to study this process. Using the model organisms  Escherichia coli  and  Bacillus subtilis , which regulate their membrane fluidity with different fatty acid types, we show here that inadequate membrane fluidity interferes with essential cellular processes such as morphogenesis and maintenance of membrane potential, and triggers large-scale lipid phase separation that drives protein segregation into the fluid phase. These findings illustrate why lipid homeostasis is such a critical cellular process. Finally, our results provide direct  in vivo  support for current  in vitro  and  in silico  models regarding lipid phase separation and associated protein segregation.
available genome assemblies for Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) have been constructed using DNA from fish belonging to the Northeast Arctic Cod (NEAC) population; a migratory population feeding in the cold Barents Sea. These assemblies have been crucial for the development of genetic markers which have been used to study population differentiation and adaptive evolution in Atlantic cod, pinpointing four discrete islands of genomic divergence located on linkage groups 1, 2, 7 and 12. In this paper, we present a high-quality reference genome from a male Atlantic cod representing a southern population inhabiting the Celtic sea. Structurally, the genome assembly (gadMor_Celtic) was produced from long-read nanopore data and has a combined contig size of 686 Mb with a N50 of 10 Mb. Integrating contigs with genetic linkage mapping information enabled us to construct 23 chromosome sequences which mapped with high confidence to the latest NEAC population assembly (gadMor3) and allowed us to characterize in detail large chromosomal inversions on linkage groups 1, 2, 7 and 12. In most cases, inversion breakpoints could be located within single nanopore contigs. Our results suggest the presence of inversions in Celtic cod on linkage groups 6, 11 and 21, although these remain to be confirmed. Further, we identified a specific repetitive element that is relatively enriched at predicted centromeric regions. Our gadMor_Celtic assembly provides a resource representing a southern cod population which is complementary to the existing northern population based genome assemblies and represents the first step towards developing pan-genomic resources for Atlantic cod.
lar ion fluxes emerge as critical actors of immunoregulation but still remain poorly explored. Here we investigated the role of the redundant cation channels TMEM176A and TMEM176B (TMEM176A/B) in RORt+ cells and conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) using germline and conditional double knock-out (DKO) mice. While Tmem176a/b appeared surprisingly dispensable for the protective function of Th17 and group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) in the intestinal mucosa, we found that they were required in cDCs for optimal antigen processing and presentation to CD4+ T cells. Using a real-time imaging method, we show that TMEM176A/B accumulate in dynamic post-Golgi vesicles preferentially linked to the late endolysosomal system and strongly colocalize with HLA-DM. Together, our results suggest that TMEM176A/B ion channels play a direct role in the MHC II compartment (MIIC) of DCs for the fine regulation of antigen presentation and naive CD4+ T cell priming.
imal peroxidases belong to a superfamily of oxidoreductases that reduce the hydrogen peroxide and oxidize numerous substrates. Since their initial characterization in 1992, several advances have provided an understanding into the origin and evolutionary history of this family of proteins. Here, we report for the first time an exhaustive evolutionary analysis of non-animal peroxidases using integrated in silico and biochemical strategies. Thanks to the availability of numerous genomic sequences from many species belonging to different kingdoms together with expert and exhaustive annotation of peroxidase sequences centralized in a dedicated database, we have deepened our understanding of the evolutionary process underlying non-animal peroxidases through phylogenetic reconstructions. We analysed the distribution of all non-animal peroxidases in more than 200 eukaryotic organisms in silico. First, we show that the presence or absence of non-animal peroxidases can be correlated with the presence or absence of certain organelles or with specific biological processes. Examining a wide range of organisms, we confirmed that ascorbate peroxidases (APx) and cytochromes c peroxidases (CcP) were detected respectively in chloroplast and mitochondria containing organisms. Plants, which contain both organelles, are an exception and contain only APxs without CcP. Class III peroxidases (CIII Prx) were only detected in plants and Class II peroxidases (CII Prx) in fungi related to wood decay and plant degradation. Moreover, we demonstrate that biochemical activities (APx, CcP and CIII Prx) assayed in protein extracts obtained from 30 different eukaryotic organisms strongly support the distribution of the sequences resulting from our in silico analysis. The biochemical results confirmed both the presence and classification of non-animal peroxidase encoding sequences.
master regulator of gene transcription and chromatin organization with occupancy at thousands of DNA target sites. CTCF is essential for embryonic development and somatic cell viability and has been characterized as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor. Increasing evidence demonstrates CTCF as a key player in several alternative splicing (AS) regulatory mechanisms, including transcription elongation, regulation of splicing factors, and epigenetic regulation. However, the genome-wide impact of Ctcf dosage on AS has not been investigated. We examined the effect of Ctcf haploinsufficiency on gene expression and AS in multiple tissues from Ctcf hemizygous (Ctcf+/-) mice. Distinct tissue-specific differences in gene expression and AS were observed in Ctcf+/- mice compared to wildtype mice. We observed a surprisingly large number of increased intron retention events in Ctcf+/- liver and kidney, specifically in genes associated with cytoskeletal organization, splicing and metabolism. This study provides further evidence for Ctcf dose-dependent and tissue-specific regulation of gene expression and AS. Our data provide a strong foundation for elucidating the mechanistic role of CTCF in AS regulation and its biological consequences.
gulatory networks of transcription factors drive embryonic patterning, it is possible that chromatin accessibility states impact how networks interact with information encoded in DNA. To determine the interplay between chromatin states and regulatory network function, we performed ATAC seq on Drosophila embryos over the period spanning the establishment of the segmentation network, from zygotic genome activation to gastrulation. Chromatin accessibility states are dynamic over this period, and establishment of the segmentation network requires maturation of the ground chromatin state. Elimination of all maternal patterning information allows identification of patterning-dependent and -independent dynamic chromatin regions. A significant proportion of patterning-dependent accessibility stems from pioneer activity of the pair-rule factor Odd-paired (opa). While opa is necessary to drive late opening of segmentation network cis-regulatory elements, competence for opa to pioneer is regulated over time. These results indicate that dynamic systems for chromatin regulation directly impact the interpretation of embryonic patterning information.
a complex and ambiguous acoustic signal that varies significantly within and across speakers. A prevalent and ubiquitous example of such variation is accented speech, to which humans adapt extremely rapidly. The goal of this study is to uncover the neurobiological bases of the attunement process that enables such fluent comprehension. Twenty-four native English participants listened to words spoken by an unaccented &quot;canonical&quot; American talker and two &quot;accented&quot; talkers, and performed a word-picture matching task, while magnetoencephalography (MEG) was recorded. Accented speech was created by including systematic phonological substitutions within the word (e.g. [s] -&amp;gt; [sh]). Activity in the auditory cortex (superior temporal gyrus) was greater for accented speech, but, critically, this was not attenuated by exposure. By contrast, prefrontal regions showed an interaction between the presence of an accent and amount of exposure: while activity decreased for canonical speech over time, responses to accented speech remained consistently elevated. Grainger causality analyses further revealed that prefrontal responses serve to modulate activity in auditory regions, suggesting the recruitment of top-down processing to decode accented signal. In sum, our results show that accented speech does not elicit the same prefrontal reduction in amplitude over time that unaccented speech does, and points to a dynamic exchange of information between the prefrontal and auditory cortices in order to recalculate phonetic classification and subsequent identification of lexical items.
lar adhesion mediated by E-cadherin is pivotal in maintaining epithelial tissue integrity and for tissue morphogenesis. Adhesion requires homophilic interactions between extracellular domains of E-cadherin molecules from neighboring cells. The interaction of its cytoplasmic domains with the cortical acto-myosin network, appears to strengthen adhesion, although, it is unclear how cortical actin affects the organization and function of E-cadherin dynamically. Here we use the ectopic expression of Drosophila E-cadherin (E-cad) in larval hemocytes, which lack endogenous E-cad, to recapitulate functional cell-cell junctions in a convenient model system. We used fluorescence emission anisotropy-based microscopy and Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy (FCS) to probe the nanoscale organization of E-cad. We find that E-cad at cell-cell junctions in hemocytes exhibits a clustered trans-paired organization, similar to that reported for the adherens junction in the developing embryonic epithelial tissue. Further, we find that extra-junctional E-cad is also organized as relatively immobile nanoclusters as well as diffusive and more loosely packed oligomers and monomers. These oligomers are promoted by cis-interactions of the ectodomain and, strikingly, their growth is constantly counteracted by cortical actomyosin. Oligomers in turn assist in generating nanoclusters that are stabilized by cortical acto-myosin. Thus, actin remodels oligomers and stabilizes nanoclusters, revealing a requirement for actin in the dynamic organization of E-cad at the nanoscale. This dynamic organization is also present at cell-cell contacts (junction), and its disruption affects junctional integrity in the hemocyte system, as well as in the embryo. Our observations uncover a hierarchical mechanism for the nanoscale organization of E-cad, which is necessary for dynamic adhesion and maintaining junctional integrity in the face of extensive remodeling.
rformance is regulated by input of sympathetic nervous system. Junctions between sympathetic ganglion neurons (SGN) and cardiac myocytes are unique cell-cell contacts designed for the efficient regulation of heart rate and contractility by the autonomic nervous system. In the present study, we report that scaffold protein ankyrin G is localized to the postsynaptic sites in co-culture of cardiac myocytes and SGN. Consistent with roles of ankyrin G in targeting Nav channels to excitable domains in neurons and cardiac myocytes, we observed increased density of Nav channels at the neuro-cardiac junctions in co-cultures of cardiac myocytes and SGN. We also have found that KCNQ1 channels are present in increased density at the specialized zones of contacts of cardiac myocytes and SGN. An increased density of Nav and KCNQ1 channels at the neuro-cardiac sympathetic junctions may have an important role in modulation of cardiac action potential by neuronal input.
o cigarette smoking during pregnancy has been robustly associated with cord blood DNA methylation. However, little is known about such effects on the placenta; in particular, whether cigarette smoking before pregnancy could also induce epigenetic alterations in the placenta of former smokers is unknown. Placental DNA methylation levels were measured in 568 women and compared among non-smokers and women either smoking during their pregnancy or who had ceased smoking before pregnancy. An Epigenome Wide Association Study identified 344 Differentially Methylated Regions (DMRs) significantly associated with maternal smoking status. Among these 344 DMRs, 262 showed &quot;reversible&quot; alterations of DNA methylation, only present in the placenta of current smokers, whereas 44 were also found altered in former smokers, whose placenta had not been exposed directly to cigarette smoking. This observation was further supported by a significant demethylation of LINE-1 sequences in the placentas of both current (-0.43 (-0.83 to -0.02)) and former smokers (-0.55 (-1.02 to -0.08)) compared to nonsmokers. A comparative analysis of the epigenome landscape based on the ENCODE placenta data demonstrated an enrichment of all 344 DMRs in enhancers histone marks. Additionally, smoking-associated DMRs were found near and/or overlapping with 13 imprinting gene clusters encompassing 18 imprinted genes. DNA methylation patterns alterations were found in 344 genomic regions in the placenta of women smoking during their pregnancy, including 44 DMRs and LINE-1 elements, where methylation changes persisted in former smokers, supporting the hypothesis of an &quot;epigenetic memory&quot; of exposure to cigarette smoking before pregnancy. Enhancers regions, including imprinting control regions were also particularly affected by placenta methylation changes associated to smoking, suggesting a biological basis for the sensitivity of these regions to tobacco exposure and mechanisms by which fetal development could be impacted.
l power is key for robust, replicable science. Here, we systematically explored how numbers of trials and subjects affect statistical power in MEG sensor-level data.  More specifically, we simulated &quot;experiments&quot; using the MEG resting-state dataset of the Human Connectome Project (HCP); we divided the data in two conditions, injected a dipolar source at a known anatomical location in one condition, but not the other, and detected significant differences at sensor level with classical paired t-tests across subjects. The group-level detectability of these simulated effects varied drastically with their anatomical origin. We thus examined in detail which spatial properties of the sources affected detectability, looking specifically at the distance and orientation of the source with respect to the closest sensor, and at the variability of these parameters across subjects. In line with previous single-subject studies, we found that the most detectable effects originate from source positions that are closest to the sensors and oriented tangentially with respect to the sensor array. In addition, cross-subject variability in orientation also affected group-level effect detectability, boosting detection in regions where this variability was small and hindering detection in regions where it was large. Incidentally, we observed a considerable covariation of source position, orientation, and their cross-subject variability in the individual brain anatomical space, making it difficult to assess the impact of each of these variables independently of one another. Therefore, we performed an additional set of simulations with the same simulation strategy as before, but this time, controlling spatial properties independently of individual anatomy. This allowed us to disentangle the effects of position, orientation, and cross-subject variability of the sources on detectability, and confirmed the strong impact of distance and orientation on detectability. Moreover, it emphasized that orientation variability across subjects also affects detectability, whereas position variability does not. Importantly, our study indicates that strict unequivocal recommendations as to the ideal number of trials and subjects for any experiment cannot be realistically provided for neurophysiological studies. Rather, it highlights the importance of considering the spatial constraints underlying expected sources of activity while planning experiments. This is particularly true when performing network level analyses in cognitive neuroscience studies, where nodes in a network shall not be considered equally detectable. Finally, we note that this variation in detectability may also account, in part, for the over-representation of some fields of study over others in the MEG domain (e.g. sensorimotor and auditory studies).
: GenBank contains over 3 million viral sequences. The National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) previously made available a tool for validating and annotating influenza virus sequences that is used to check submissions to GenBank. Before this project, there was no analogous tool in use for non-influenza viral sequence submissions.Results: We developed a system called VADR (Viral Annotation DefineR) that validates and annotates viral sequences in GenBank submissions. The annotation system is based on analysis of the input nucleotide sequence using models built from curated RefSeqs. Hidden Markov models are used to classify sequences by determining the RefSeq they are most similar to, and feature annotation from the RefSeq is mapped based on a nucleotide alignment of the full sequence to a covariance model. Predicted proteins encoded by the sequence are validated with nucleotide-to-protein alignments using BLAST. The system identifies 43 types of &quot;alerts&quot; that (unlike the previous BLAST-based system) provide deterministic and rigorous feedback to researchers who submit sequences with unexpected characteristics. VADR has been integrated into GenBank9s submission processing pipeline allowing for viral submissions passing all tests to be accepted and annotated automatically, without the need for any human (GenBank indexer) intervention. Unlike the previous submission-checking system, VADR is freely available (https://github.com/nawrockie/vadr) for local installation and use. VADR has been used for Norovirus submissions since May 2018 and for Dengue virus submissions since January 2019. Other viruses with high numbers of submissions will be added incrementally.Conclusion: VADR improves the speed with which non-flu virus submissions to GenBank can be checked and improves the content and quality of the GenBank annotations. The availability and portability of the software allows researchers to run the GenBank checks prior to submitting their viral sequences, and thereby gain confidence that their submissions will be accepted immediately without the need to correspond with GenBank staff. Reciprocally, the adoption of VADR frees GenBank staff to spend more time on services other than checking routine viral sequence submissions.
 changes affecting food resources are a major driver of cetacean evolution. Small cetaceans like porpoises (Phocoenidae) are among the most metabolically challenged marine mammals and are particularly sensitive to changes in their food resources. The seven species of this family inhabit mostly temperate waters and constitute a textbook example of antitropical distribution. Yet, their evolutionary history remains poorly known despite major conservation issues threatening the survival of some porpoises (e.g., vaquita and Yangzte finless porpoises). Here, we reconstructed their evolutionary history across the speciation continuum, from intraspecific subdivisions to species divergence. Phylogenetic analyses of 63 mitochondrial genomes suggest that, like other toothed whales, porpoises radiated during the Pliocene in response to deep environmental changes. However, all intra-specific phylogeographic patterns were shaped during the Quaternary Glaciations. We observed analogous evolutionary patterns in both hemispheres associated with convergent adaptations to coastal versus oceanic environments. This result suggests that the mechanism(s) driving species diversification in the relatively well-known species from the northern hemisphere may apply also to the poorly-known southern species. In contrast to previous studies, we showed that the spectacled and Burmeister9s porpoises share a more recent common ancestor than with the vaquita that diverged from southern species during the Pliocene. The low genetic diversity observed in the vaquita carried signatures of a very low population size throughout at least the last 5,000 years, leaving one single relict mitochondrial lineage. Finally, we observed unreported subspecies level divergence within Dall9s, spectacled and Pacific harbor porpoises, suggesting a richer evolutionary history than previously suspected. These results provide a new perspective on the mechanism driving the adaptation and speciation processes involved in the diversification of cetacean species. This knowledge can illuminate their demographic trends and provide an evolutionary framework for their conservation.
oa carambola is commonly known as star fruit because of its peculiar shape and its fruit is a rich source of minerals and vitamins. It is also used in traditional medicines in countries like India, China, the Philippines, and Brazil for treating various ailments such as fever, diarrhea, vomiting, and skin disease. Here we present the first draft genome of the Oxiladacea family with an assembled genome size of 470.51 Mb. In total, 24,726 protein-coding genes were identified and 16,490 genes were annotated using various well-known databases. Phylogenomic analysis confirmed the evolutionary position of the Oxiladacea family. Based on the gene functional annotations, we discovered the enzymes possibly involved in the biosynthesis of vitamin C, vitamin B2 and flavonoids pathways. Overall, being the first sequenced genome in the Oxiladacea family, the data provides an important resource for the nutritional, medicinal, and cultivational studies for this economically important star-fruit plant.
 nerve injury leads to altered cortical excitation-inhibition balance which is associated with sensory dysfunctions. We tested if non-invasive repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) which has shown to induce neuronal excitability, and cell-specific magnetic activation via the Electromagnetic-perceptive gene (EPG) which is a novel gene that was identified and cloned from Kryptopterrus bicirrhis and demonstrated to evoke neural responses when magnetically stimulated, can restore cortical excitability. A battery of behavioral tests, fMRI and immunochemistry were performed in the weeks following limb denervation in rats. The results demonstrate that neuromodulation significantly improved long-term mobility, decreased anxiety and enhanced neuroplasticity. The study also identifies the acute post-injury phase as a critical time for intervention. Moreover, the results implicate EPG as an effective cell-specific neuromodulation approach. Together, these results reinforce the growing amount of evidence from human and animal studies that are establishing neuromodulation as an effective strategy to promote plasticity and rehabilitation.
: Mitochondrial diseases (MDs) are the most common group of inherited metabolic disorders and are often challenging to diagnose due to extensive genotype-phenotype heterogeneity. MDs are caused by mutations in the nuclear or mitochondrial genome, where pathogenic mitochondrial variants are usually heteroplasmic and typically at much lower allelic fraction in the blood than affected tissues. Both genomes can now be readily analysed using unbiased whole genome sequencing (WGS), but most nuclear variant detection methods fail to detect low heteroplasmy variants in the mitochondrial genome.Results: We present mity, a bioinformatics pipeline for detecting and interpreting heteroplasmic SNVs and INDELs in the mitochondrial genome using WGS data. In 2,980 healthy controls, we observed on average 3,166x coverage in the mitochondrial genome using WGS from blood. mity utilises this high depth to detect pathogenic mitochondrial variants, even at low heteroplasmy. mity enables easy interpretation of mitochondrial variants and can be incorporated into existing diagnostic WGS pipelines. This could simplify the diagnostic pathway, avoid invasive tissue biopsies and increase the diagnostic rate for MDs and other conditions caused by impaired mitochondrial function.Availability: mity is available from https://github.com/KCCG/mity under an MIT license.
xcitation and inhibition is widely observed in cortical recordings. How does this balance shape neural computations and stimulus representations? This problem is often studied using computational models of neuronal networks in a dynamically balanced state. However, these balanced network models predict a linear relationship between stimuli and population responses, in contrast to the nonlinearity of cortical computations. We show that every balanced network architecture admits some stimuli that break the balanced state and these breaks in balance push the network into a 99semi-balanced state99 characterized by excess inhibition to some neurons, but an absence of excess excitation. The semi-balanced state is unavoidable in networks driven by multiple stimuli, is more consistent with experimental data, has a direct mathematical relationship to artificial neural networks, and permits nonlinear stimulus representations and nonlinear computations.
e responses to stress are a hallmark of alcohol use disorder, but the mechanisms that underlie this are not well characterized. Here we show that kappa opioid receptor (KOR) signaling in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a critical molecular substrate promoting a maladaptive behavioral phenotype following heavy alcohol drinking. Altered responses to an innate stressor were associated with enhanced PFC-driven excitation of prodynorphin-containing neurons in the BNST during protracted withdrawal from intermittent alcohol drinking. These findings suggest that increased corticolimbic connectivity may underlie impaired stress-coping during protracted withdrawal from heavy drinking and represents a target of potential therapeutic mediation as well as a potential biomarker of negative outcomes.
rain imaging studies have identified a domain-general or  multiple-demand  (MD) activation pattern that is associated with many tasks and may play a core role in cognitive control. Though this finding is well established, the limited spatial localization provided by traditional imaging methods has precluded a consensus regarding the precise anatomy, functional differentiation and connectivity of the MD system. To address these limitations, we used data from 449 subjects from the Human Connectome Project (HCP), with cortex of each individual parcellated using neurobiologically grounded multi-modal MRI features. The conjunction of three cognitive contrasts reveals a core of 10 widely distributed MD parcels per hemisphere that are most strongly activated and functionally interconnected, surrounded by a penumbra of 17 additional areas. Outside cerebral cortex, MD activation is most prominent in the caudate and cerebellum. Comparison with canonical resting state networks shows MD regions concentrated in the fronto-parietal network but also engaging three other networks. MD activations show modest relative task preferences accompanying strong co-recruitment. With their distributed anatomical organization, mosaic functional preferences, and strong interconnectivity, we suggest that MD regions are well positioned to integrate and assemble the diverse components that make up cognitive operations. Our more precise delineation of MD regions provides a basis for refined analyses of their functions and interrelations.
ic events, such as volcanic eruptions, can have profound impacts on the demographic histories of resident taxa. Due to its presumed effect on biodiversity, the Pleistocene eruption of super-volcano Toba has received abundant attention. We test the effects of the Toba eruption on the diversification, genetic diversity, and demography of three co-distributed species of parachuting frogs (Genus Rhacophorus) on Sumatra. We generate target-capture data (~950 loci and ~440,000 bp) for three species of parachuting frogs and use these data paired with previously generated double digest restriction-site associated DNA (ddRADseq) data to estimate population structure and genetic diversity, to test for population size changes using demographic modeling, and to estimate the temporal clustering of size change events using a full-likelihood Bayesian method. We find that populations around Toba exhibit reduced genetic diversity compared with southern populations, and that these northern populations exhibit a signal of contraction around the time of the eruption (~80 kya). However, we infer a stronger signal of expansion in southern populations around ~400 kya, and at least two of the northern populations may have also expanded at this time. Taken together, this suggests that the Toba eruption precipitated population declines in northern populations, but that the demographic history of these three species was more greatly impacted by mid-Pleistocene forest expansion, supporting local rather than regional effects of the Toba eruption.
s in error processing are implicated in a range of DSM-defined psychiatric disorders. For instance, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and generalised anxiety disorder show enhanced electrophysiological responses to errors (i.e. error-related negativity (ERN)) while others like schizophrenia have an attenuated ERN. However, as diagnostic categories in psychiatry are heterogeneous and also highly intercorrelated, the precise mapping of ERN enhancements and impairments is unclear. To address this, we recorded electroencephalograms (EEG) from 196 participants who performed the Flanker task and collected scores on 9 questionnaires assessing psychiatric symptoms to test if a dimensional framework could reveal specific transdiagnostic clinical manifestations of error processing dysfunctions. Contrary to our hypothesis, we found no association between ERN amplitude and symptom severity of OCD, trait anxiety, depression, social anxiety, impulsivity, eating disorders, alcohol addiction, schizotypy or apathy. A transdiagnostic approach did nothing to improve signal; there was no association between three transdiagnostic dimensions (anxious-depression, compulsive behaviour and intrusive thought and social withdrawal) and ERN magnitude. In these same individuals, we replicated a previously published transdiagnostic association between goal-directed learning and compulsive behaviour and intrusive thought. Associations between the ERN and psychopathology might be smaller than previously assumed and/or dependent on a greater level of symptom severity than other transdiagnostic cognitive biomarkers.
king memory is a brief, capacity-limited store of visual information that is involved in a large number of cognitive functions. To guide one9s behavior effectively, one must efficiently allocate these limited memory resources across memory items. Previous research has suggested that items are either stored in memory or completely blocked from memory access. However, recent behavioral work proposes that memory resources can be flexibly split across items based on their level of task importance. Here, we investigated the electrophysiological correlates of flexible resource allocation by manipulating the distribution of resources amongst systematically lateralized memory items. We examined the contralateral delay activity (CDA), a waveform typically associated with the number of items held in memory. Across three experiments, we found that, in addition to memory load, the CDA flexibly tracks memory resource allocation. This allocation occurred as early as attentional selection, as indicated by the N2pc. Additionally, CDA amplitude was better-described when fit with a continuous model predicted by load and resources together than when fit with either alone. Our findings show that electrophysiological markers of attentional selection and memory maintenance not only track memory load, but also the proportion of memory resources those items receive.
s of biomarkers that provide shared link between disease severity, drug-induced pharmacodynamic effects and response status in human trials can provide number of values for patient benefits: elucidating current therapeutic mechanism of-action, and, back-translating to fast-track development of next-generation therapeutics. Both opportunities are predicated on proactive generation of human molecular profiles that capture longitudinal trajectories before and after pharmacological intervention. Here, we present the largest plasma proteomic biomarker dataset available to-date and the corresponding analyses from placebo-controlled Phase III clinical trials of the phosphodiesterase type 4 inhibitor apremilast in psoriasis (PSOR), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), and ankylosing spondylitis (AS) from 526 subjects overall. Using approximately 150 plasma analytes tracked across three time points, we identified IL-17A and KLK-7 as biomarkers for disease severity and apremilast pharmacodynamic effect in psoriasis patients. Combined decline rate of KLK-7, PEDF, MDC and ANGPTL4 by Week 16 represented biomarkers for the responder subgroup, shedding insights into therapeutic mechanisms. In ankylosing spondylitis patients, IL-6 and LRG-1 were identified as biomarkers with concordance to disease severity. Apremilast-induced LRG-1 increase was consistent with the overall lack of efficacy in ankylosing spondylitis. Taken together, these findings expanded the mechanistic knowledge base of apremilast and provided translational foundations to accelerate future efforts including compound differentiation, combination, and repurposing.
 walls constitute physical barriers that restrict access of microbial pathogens to the contents of plant cells. The primary cell wall of multicellular plants predominantly consists of cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin. In Arabidopsis, a cell wall-localised protein, BETA-XYLOSIDASE 4 (BXL4) that belongs to a seven-member BETA-XYLOSIDASE (BXL) gene family  was induced upon infection with the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea and mechanical wounding in a jasmonoyl isoleucine (JA-Ile) dependent manner. Ectopic expression of the BXL4 gene in Arabidopsis seed coat epidermal cells was able to rescue a bxl1 mutant phenotype suggesting that like BXL1, BXL4, had both xylosidase and arabinosidase activity and acts in mura on cell wall polysaccharides. bxl4 mutants show a compromised resistance to B. cinerea. Upon infection, bxl4 mutants accumulated reduced levels of JA-Ile and camalexin. Conditional overexpression of BXL4 resulted in enhanced expression of PDF1.2 and PAD3 transcripts both before and after B. cinerea infection. This was associated with reduced susceptibility of the transgenic lines to B. cinerea. These data suggest that remodelling or degradation of one or more cell wall polysaccharides is important for plant immunity against B. cinerea and plays a role in pathogen-induced JA-Ile and camalexin accumulation.
ot5 are crucial components of the Ccr4-Not complex with pivotal functions in mRNA metabolism. Both associate with ribosomes but mechanistic insights on their function remain elusive. Here we determine that Not5 and Not4 synchronously impact translation initiation and Not5 alone alters translation elongation. Deletion of Not5 causes elongation defects in a codon-dependent fashion, increasing and decreasing the ribosome dwelling occupancy at minor and major codons, respectively. This larger difference in codons translation velocities alters translation globally and enables kinetically unfavorable processes such as nascent chain deubiquitination to take place. In turn, this leads to abortive translation and favors protein aggregation. These findings highlight the global impact of Not4 and Not5 in controlling the speed of mRNA translation and transition from initiation to elongation.
ement of cell activity changes during damage is important to understand the process of cell death and evaluate the effect of medicines. To evaluate cell activity generally, we extended the method of intensity fluctuation in which intensity change in the pixel induced by the movement of organelles was calculated. Cancer, endothelial and iPS cells were damaged by reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by a fluorescent dye (IR700), hydrogen peroxide, and ultraviolet light. The intensity fluctuation in damaged cells gradually decreased independent of the kind of cell, indicating that the decrease in the fluctuation is a general phenomenon in damaged cells. The rupture of vesicles and mitochondria in the cells were observed upon ROS production. The motility of purified kinesin and dynein which transport vesicles and organelles was inhibited by ROS. These suggest that ROS and cytotoxic molecules spreading from ruptured organelles contribute to the reduction in cell activity which brings about the decrease in the motility and intensity fluctuation of organelles driven by kinesin and dynein.
ct effects of top predators on the biomass of lower trophic levels have been extensively documented, especially in aquatic ecosystems and are commonly characterized as &quot;trophic cascades.&quot; There have also been studies showing that predator diversity can play an important role in mediating these trophic cascades. In addition, some studies have demonstrated that the diversity of consumers can impact the stability of their resources. However, the effects of predator diversity on the stability of lower trophic levels (cascading effects of predator diversity) have not yet been studied. We conducted a field pond mesocosm experiment and accompanying laboratory microcosm experiment in which we grew phytoplankton with zooplankton herbivores, manipulating the presence and co-habitation of two heteropteran predators while controlling for total expected predation. We hypothesized that if the predators partitioned their herbivore prey, for example by size, then co-presence of the predators would lead to 1) increased average values and 2) decreased temporal variability of phytoplankton biomass. We present evidence that the predators partitioned their herbivore prey, and found that this simultaneous suppression of different herbivore groups reduced the variability of edible (smaller) phytoplankton biomass, without affecting mean phytoplankton biomass. We also found that phytoplankton more resistant to herbivory were not affected by our manipulations, indicating that the zooplankton herbivores played an important role in mediating this cascading diversity-stability effect. Our results demonstrate that predator diversity can indirectly stabilize primary producer biomass via a &quot;diversity-stability cascade&quot; in the manner of a trophic cascade, seemingly dependent on predator complementarity and the vulnerability of taxa to consumption, and independent of a more traditional trophic cascade in which average biomass is enhanced. Predator diversity, especially in terms of functional traits relating to differential prey use such as body size, may be important for regulating ecosystem stability, and may provide a way to improve the reliability of algal crop yields via biological control.
tation to periodic fluctuations of environmental light, photosynthetic organisms have evolved a circadian clock. The gene expression of ROS scavenging enzymes is regulated by circadian clock genes, which has been considered to help deal with the diurnal photogeneration of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Although a series of recent discoveries have suggested the correlation between circadian clock control and ROS scavenging mechanisms, circadian rhythms of ROS stress tolerance have not been experimentally demonstrated to date. In the present work, we constructed a novel assay using methyl viologen (MV) which generates ROS under light irradiation and experimentally verified the circadian rhythms of ROS stress tolerance in photosynthetic cells of cyanobacterium  Synechococcus elongatus  PCC7942, a standard model species for the investigation of circadian clock. Here, we report that ROS generated by MV treatment causes damage to stroma components and not to the photosynthetic electron transportation chain, leading to reduced cell viability. The degree of decrease in cell viability was dependent on the subjective time at which ROS stress was applied. Thus, ROS stress tolerance was shown to exhibit circadian rhythms. Notably, rhythms of ROS stress tolerance disappeared in mutant cells lacking the essential clock genes. Further, ROS stress tolerance showed irregular behaviors under irregular light/dark cycles that mismatched the subjective time. These results clearly show that the antioxidant ability in the stroma varies periodically under the control of clock genes. This is the first demonstration of ROS stress tolerance in cyanobacterial cells at a phenotypic level showing circadian oscillation.
 Hand movement is a crucial function for human daily life. Developing brain-machine interface (BMI) to control a robotic hand by brain signals would help the severely paralyzed people partially regain the functional independence. Previous intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG)-based BMIs towards gesture decoding mostly used neural signals from the primary sensorimotor cortex while ignoring the hand movement related signals from posterior parietal cortex (PPC). Here, we propose combining iEEG recordings from PPC with that from primary sensorimotor cortex to enhance the gesture decoding performance of iEEG-based BMI. Approach: Stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG) signals from 25 epilepsy subjects were recorded when they performed a three-class hand gesture task. Across all 25 subjects, we identified 524, 114 and 221 electrodes from three regions of interest (ROIs), including PPC, postcentral cortex (POC) and precentral cortex (PRC), respectively. Based on the time-varying high gamma power (55-150 Hz) of SEEG signal, for each electrode in these ROIs, both the general activation in the task and the selectivity to gestures along time was evaluated by the coefficient of determination. According to the activation along time, we further assessed the first activation time of each ROI. Finally, the decoding accuracy for gestures was obtained by linear support vector machine classifier to comparatively explore if the PPC will assist PRC and POC for gesture decoding. (Main Results) We find that a majority(L, &amp;gt;60%, R, &amp;gt;40%) of electrodes in all the three ROIs present significant activation during the task. A large-scale temporal activation sequence exists among the ROIs, where PPC activates first, PRC second and POC last. Among the activated electrodes, 15% (PRC), 26% (POC) and 4% (left PPC) of electrodes are significantly selective to gestures. Moreover, decoding accuracy obtained by combining the selective electrodes from three ROIs together is 5%, 3.6%, and 8% higher than that from only PRC and POC when decoding features across, before, and after the movement onset, were used. (Significance)This is the first human iEEG study demonstrating that PPC contains neural information about fine hand movement, supporting the role of PPC in hand shape encoding. Combining PPC with primary sensorimotor cortex can provide more information to improve the gesture decoding performance. Our results suggest that PPC could be a rich neural source for iEEG-based BMI. Our findings also demonstrate the early involvement of human PPC in visuomotor task and thus may provide additional implications for further scientific research and BMI applications.
ational Mouse Phenotyping Consortium reports the generation of new mouse mutant strains for over 5,000 genes from targeted embryonic stem cells on the C57BL/6N genetic background. This includes 2,850 null alleles for which no equivalent mutant mouse line exists, 2,987 novel conditional-ready alleles, and 4,433 novel reporter alleles. This nearly triples the number of genes with reporter alleles and almost doubles the number of conditional alleles available to the scientific community. When combined with more than 30 years of community effort, the total mutant allele mouse resource covers more than half of the genome. The extensively validated collection is archived and distributed through public repositories, facilitating availability to the worldwide biomedical research community, and expanding our understanding of gene function and human disease.
ngal pharmacopeia is critically small, particularly in light of the recent emergence of multi-drug-resistant pathogens such as Candida auris. Herein, we report that derivatives of the anti-malarial drug mefloquine have broad spectrum antifungal activity against pathogenic yeasts and molds. In addition, the mefloquine derivatives have activity against clinical isolates that are resistant to one or more of the three classes of drugs currently used to treat invasive fungal infections, indicating that they have a novel mechanism of action. Importantly, the in vitro toxicity profiles using human cell lines indicate that the mefloquine derivatives are very similar to the parent mefloquine despite being up to 64-fold more active against fungal cells. In addition to direct antifungal activity, sub-inhibitory concentrations of the mefloquine derivatives inhibit the expression of virulence traits including filamentation in C. albicans and capsule formation/melanization in C. neoformans. Mode/mechanism of action experiments indicate that the mefloquine derivatives interfere with both mitochondrial and vacuolar function as part of a multi-target mechanism of action. The broad-spectrum scope of activity, blood-brain-barrier penetration, and large number of previously synthesized analogs available combine to support the further optimization and development of the antifungal activity of this general class of drug-like molecules.
: RTS,S is the leading malaria vaccine candidate, but only confers partial efficacy against malaria in children. RTS,S is based on the major Plasmodium falciparum sporozoite surface antigen, circumsporozoite protein (CSP). The induction of anti-CSP antibodies is important for protection, however, it is unclear how protective antibodies function. Methods: We quantified the induction of functional anti-CSP antibody responses in healthy malaria-naive adults (N=45) vaccinated with RTS,S/AS01. This included the ability to mediate effector functions via the fragment crystallizable (Fc) region, such as interacting with human complement proteins and Fc-receptors (FcRs) that are expressed on immune cells, which promote various immunological functions. Results: Our major findings were i) RTS,S-induced antibodies mediate Fc-dependent effector functions, ii) functional antibodies were generally highest after the second vaccine dose; iii) functional antibodies targeted multiple regions of CSP, iv) participants with higher levels of functional antibodies had a reduced probability of developing parasitemia following homologous challenge (p&amp;lt;0.05); v) non-protected subjects had higher levels of anti-CSP IgM. Conclusions: Our data suggests a role for Fc-dependent antibody effector functions in RTS,S-induced immunity. Enhancing the induction of these functional activities may be a strategy to improve the protective efficacy of RTS,S or other malaria vaccines.
e abundant in eukaryotic genomes and contribute to differences in genome size and organization among organisms. The large blocks of tandem repeats--satellite DNAs (satDNAs)--frequently found in regions of low recombination can turn over rapidly between species, with potential consequences for genome evolution and speciation. Short blocks of satDNA also exist in the euchromatin, where they are particularly abundant on the X chromosome. These euchromatic repeats can affect gene expression and some have roles dosage compensation. Despite their abundance and impact on important phenotypes, we know little about the detailed evolutionary dynamics and the processes that shape satDNA distributions in genomes over short evolutionary time scales. Here we use high-quality genome assemblies to study the evolutionary dynamics of satDNA across closely related species:  Drosophila melanogaster  and three species of the simulans clade ( D. simulans ,  D. sechellia , and  D. mauritiana ). We focus on two complex satDNA families, Rsp-like and 1.688 gm/cm3. These repeats are highly dynamic in the heterochromatin, where their genomic location varies. We discovered that euchromatic repeats are similarly dynamic, changing in abundance, number of clusters, and composition within clusters, even across the simulans clade. While  1.688  is an old repeat family,  Rsp-like  has recently proliferated, spreading to new genomic locations across the X chromosome independently in  D. simulans  and  D. mauritiana . We infer that extrachromosomal circular DNA integration and/or interlocus gene conversions resolved by microhomology-mediated repair pathways could account for satDNA proliferation in genomes. The divergence of repeat landscapes between species may have important consequences for genome evolution.
ation of specific DNA segments typically involve in vitro generation of large sequence libraries and their introduction in cells for selection. Alternative in vivo mutagenesis systems on cells often show deleterious offsite mutations and restricted capabilities. To overcome these limitations, we have developed an in vivo platform to diversify specific DNA segments based on protein fusions between various base deaminases (BD) and the T7 RNA polymerase (T7RNAP) that recognizes a cognate promoter oriented towards the target sequence. The transcriptional elongation of these fusions generates transitions C to T or A to G on both DNA strands and in long DNA segments. To delimit the boundaries of the diversified DNA, the catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) is tethered with custom-designed crRNAs as a roadblock for BD-T7RNAP elongation. While the efficiency of this platform is demonstrated in E. coli, the system can be adapted to a variety of bacterial and eukaryotic hosts.
etal cations are essential to the structure and function of the ribosome. Previous characterizations of ribosome structure and function performed under standard laboratory conditions have implicated Mg 2+  as the primary mediator of ribosomal structure and function. The contribution of Fe 2+  as a ribosomal cofactor has been largely overlooked, despite ribosomal evolution in a high Fe 2+  environment, and its continued use by obligate anaerobes inhabiting high Fe 2+  niches. Here we show that (i) iron readily cleaves RNA by a non-oxidative mechanism that has not been detected previously, (ii) functional ribosomes purified from cells grown under low O 2 , high Fe 2+  conditions are associated with Fe 2+ , (iii) a small subset of Fe 2+  that is associated with the ribosome is not exchangeable with surrounding cations, presumably because it is highly coordinated by rRNA. In total, these results expand the ancient role of iron in biochemistry, suggest a novel method for regulation of translation by iron, and highlight a possible new mechanism of iron toxicity.
nematodes are parasites that destroy many crops, however, their presence also serves as an indicator of the state of soil health. Tomato is a very studied, cultivated vegetable. In the micro-space of the knots we determine its pathogenesis. The macronutrients, micronutrients and beneficial elements present on root-knot nematodes were C&amp;gt;O&amp;gt; N (54.73, 37.57, and 3.55%), phosphorus (0.133%), Na&amp;gt;Ca&amp;gt;Mg&amp;gt;K cations (1.13, 1,032, 0.094, and 0.048%), S (0.247%), micronutrients Fe&amp;gt;Cl (0.163, 0.027%), and beneficial elements Si&amp;gt;Al (0.354, 0.985%). Progenesis of the chromatograms (ES+/ES-), 202 compounds were detected in the first polarity, in which 195 have at least one possible identification candidate, the second were 42 compounds, and 41 match with at least one compound. Putative compounds with the highest scores are reported in this research: kukoamina (57.6), furmecyclox (51.1), feruloylputrescina (55.3), N1-trans-feruloylagmatine (53.9), dehydrotomatin (49.8, 50.8, 52.3, 52.6), jurubine (54.8,51.6), etnangien (50.2), dehydromelilotoside (41.5), tomatine (55), minutissamide (51.7). Nematodes in state (J2), six nematodes within the knots with an average length of 1.16 mm, were found and their interaction with other microorganisms is possible. With the high concentrations of Na+ in the root, the concentration of the cation Mg2+ and K+ decreases; while the N does not present any change.
lection in tea (Camellia sinensis) breeding has the potential to accelerate efficiency of choosing parents with desirable traits at the seedling stage. The study evaluated different genome-enabled prediction models for black tea quality and drought tolerance traits in discovery and validation populations. The discovery population comprised of two segregating tea populations (TRFK St. 504 and TRFK St. 524) with 255 F1 progenies and 56 individual tea cultivars in validation population genotyped using 1 421 DArTseq markers. Two-fold cross-validation was used for training the prediction models in discovery population, and the best prediction models were consequently, fitted to the validation population. Of all the four based prediction approaches, putative QTLs (Quantitative Trait Loci) + annotated proteins + KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes) pathway-based prediction approach, showed robustness and usefulness in prediction of phenotypes. Extreme Learning Machine model had better prediction ability for catechin, astringency, brightness, briskness, and colour based on putative QTLs + annotated proteins + KEGG pathway approach. The percent variables of importance of putatively annotated proteins and KEGG pathways were associated with the phenotypic traits. The findings has for the first time opened up a new avenue for future application of genomic selection in tea breeding.
s who begin drug use during early adolescence experience more adverse consequences compared to those initiating later, especially if they are female.  The mechanisms for these age and gender differences remain obscure, but studies in rodents suggest that psychostimulants may disrupt the normal ontogeny of dopamine and glutamate systems in the prefrontal cortex (PFC).  Here, we studied Sprague-Dawley rats of both sexes who began methamphetamine (METH, i.v.) self-administration (SA) in adolescence (postnatal [P] day 41) or adulthood (P91). Rats received seven daily 2-h SA sessions with METH or saccharin as the reinforcer, followed by 14 daily long access (LgA; 6 h) sessions.  After 7 and 14 days of abstinence, novel object (OR) or object-in-place (OiP) recognition was assessed.  PFC and nucleus accumbens were collected 7 days after the final cognitive test and NMDA receptor subunits and dopamine D1 receptor expression was measured. We found that during LgA sessions, adolescent-onset rats escalated METH intake more rapidly than adult-onset rats, with adolescent-onset females earning the most infusions. Adolescent-onset rats exhibited modest deficits in OiP compared to adult-onset rats, but there was no sex difference in this effect and no groups differed in OR.  We found no group differences in D1 and NMDA receptor expression, suggesting no long-lasting alteration of ontogenetic expression profiles.  Our findings suggest that adolescent-onset drug use is more likely to lead to compulsive-like patterns of drug-taking and subsequent dysfunction of PFC-dependent cognition.
 ions doped upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) hold great promise as the imaging contrast agent for multimodal medical imaging techniques for diagnosis, including fluorescent bioimaging, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography. However, the maximized signal values of fluorescence and MRI cannot be achieved simultaneously from the same upconversion nanoparticles structures because high specific surface areas can benefit the signal gaining of MRI while big size can induce brighter fluorescent imaging. In this work, we designed and fabricated novel core-porous shell structures for UCNPs with much-enhanced signal values for both fluorescent imaging and MRI. The core-porous shell UCNPs were synthesized via a post-treatment process after an inert shell was coated onto the core UCNPs. The formation mechanism was carefully investigated. The fluorescent and magnetic resonance properties have been detailed characterized and compared from core, core-shell and core-porous UCNPs. Large and bright UCNPs in fluorescence and MRI have been achieved and great potential as the dual-modal contrast agent.
egulate the life histories of diverse eukaryotes, but relatively little is known about how eukaryotes interpret and respond to multiple bacterial cues encountered simultaneously. To explore how a eukaryote might respond to a combination of bioactive molecules from multiple bacteria, we treated the choanoflagellate Salpingoeca rosetta with two sets of bacterial cues, one that induces mating and the other that induces multicellular development. We found that simultaneous exposure to both sets of cues enhanced multicellular development in S. rosetta, eliciting both larger multicellular colonies and an increase in the number of colonies. Thus, rather than conveying conflicting sets of information, these distinct bacterial cues synergize to augment multicellular development. This study demonstrates how a eukaryote can integrate and modulate its response to cues from diverse bacteria, underscoring the potential impact of complex microbial communities on eukaryotic life histories.
: Although germline copy number variants (CNVs) are the genetic cause of multiple hereditary diseases, detecting them from targeted next-generation sequencing data (NGS) remains a challenge. Existing tools perform well for large CNVs but struggle with single and multi-exon alterations. The aim of this work is to evaluate CNV calling tools working on gene panel NGS data with CNVs up to single-exon resolution and their suitability as a screening step before orthogonal confirmation in genetic diagnostics strategies.Results: Five tools (DECoN, CoNVaDING, panelcn.MOPS, ExomeDepth and CODEX2) were tested against four genetic diagnostics datasets (495 samples, 231 CNVs), using the default and sensitivity-optimized parameters. Most tools were highly sensitive and specific, but the performance was dataset-dependant. In our in-house datasets, DECoN and panelcn.MOPS with optimized parameters showed enough sensitivity to be used as screening methods in genetic diagnostics.Availability: Benchmarking-optimization code is freely available at https://github.com/TranslationalBioinformaticsIGTP/CNVbenchmarkeR.
tion sex ratio is thought to be maintained through balancing selection on rare phenotypes. However, empirical evidence for genetic influence has thus far proven elusive. We combined 1000 Genomes data and large cohorts to study human sex ratios. We found underrepresentation of male offspring in preeclampsia, a serious pregnancy disorder with uncertain pathogenesis. Genetic variation of fetal human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G), regulating maternal anti-fetal immune responses, was found to be under balancing selection. Sex-linked downregulation of HLA-G and upregulation of interferon alpha-1 (IFNA1) expression contribute to loss of fetal immunotolerance in preeclampsia and suggest hydroxychloroquine as a treatment option. Our findings indicate that an evolutionary trade-off between fetal immunotolerance and protection against infections promotes genetic diversity in HLA-G, thereby maintaining human sex ratios.
ear (Pyrus communis L.) cultivars require a genetically pre-determined duration of cold-temperature exposure to induce autocatalytic system 2 ethylene biosynthesis and subsequent fruit ripening. The physiological responses of pear to cold-temperature-induced ripening have been well characterized, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon continue to be elucidated. This study employed established cold temperature conditioning treatments for ripening of two pear cultivars, DAnjou and Bartlett. Using a time-course transcriptomics approach, global gene expression responses of each cultivar were assessed at four different developmental stages during the cold conditioning process. Differential expression, functional annotation, and gene ontology enrichment analyses were performed. Interestingly, evidence for the involvement of cold-induced, vernalization-related genes and repressors of endodormancy release was found. These genes have not previously been described to play a role in fruit during the ripening transition. The resulting data provide insight into cultivar-specific mechanisms of cold-induced transcriptional regulation of ripening in European pear, as well as a unique comparative analysis of the two cultivars with very different cold conditioning requirements.
induced calcite precipitation (MICP) has not only helped to shape our planet9s geological features, but is also a promising technology to address environmental concerns in civil engineering applications. However, limited understanding of the biomineralization capacity of environmental bacteria impedes application. We therefore surveyed the environment for different mechanisms of precipitation across bacteria. The most fundamental difference was ureolytic ability, where urease-positive bacteria caused rapid, widespread increases in pH, while non-ureolytic strains produced such changes slowly and locally. These pH shifts correlated well with patterns of precipitation on solid media. Strikingly, while both mechanisms led to high levels of precipitation, we observed clear differences in the precipitate. Ureolytic bacteria produced homogenous, inorganic fine crystals, whereas the crystals of non-ureolytic strains were larger with a mixed organic/inorganic composition. When representative strains were tested in application for crack healing in cement mortars, non-ureolytic bacteria gave robust results, while ureolytic strains showed more variation. This may be explained by our observation that urease activity varied between growth conditions, or by the different nature and therefore material performance of the precipitate. Our results shed light on the breadth of biomineralization activity among environmental bacteria, an important step towards the rational design of bacteria-based engineering solutions.
ch recombination (CSR) changes antibody isotype by replacing C constant exons with different constant exons located downstream on the immunoglobulin heavy (IgH) locus. During CSR, transcription through specific switch (S) regions and processing of noncoding germline transcripts (GLTs) are essential for the targeting of Activation-Induced cytidine Deaminase (AID). While CSR to IgG1 is abolished in mice lacking I1 exon donor splice site (dss), many questions remain regarding the importance of I exon dss recognition in CSR. To further clarify the role of I exon dss in CSR, we first evaluated RNA polymerase II (RNA pol II) loading and chromatin accessibility in S regions after activation of mouse B cells lacking I1 dss. We found that deletion of I1 dss markedly reduced RNA pol II pausing and active chromatin marks in the S1 region. We then challenged the post-transcriptional function of I exon dss in CSR by using antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) masking I exon dss on GLTs. Treatment of stimulated B cells with an ASO targeting I1 dss, in the acceptor S1 region, or I dss, in the donor S region, did not decrease germline transcription but strongly inhibited constitutive splicing and CSR to IgG1. Altogether, this study reveals that the recognition of I exon dss first supports RNA pol II pausing and the opening of chromatin in targeted S regions and that GLTs splicing events using constitutive I exon dss appear mandatory for the later steps of CSR, most likely by guiding AID to S regions.
eurons drive learning by coding reward prediction errors (RPEs), which are formalized as subtractions of predicted values from reward values. Subtractions accommodate point estimate predictions of value, such as the average value. However, point estimate predictions fail to capture many features of choice and learning behaviors. For instance, reaction times and learning rates consistently reflect higher moments of probability distributions. Here, we demonstrate that dopamine RPE responses code probability distributions. We presented monkeys with rewards that were drawn from the tails of normal and uniform reward size distributions to generate rare and common RPEs, respectively. Behavioral choices and pupil diameter measurements indicated that monkeys learned faster and registered greater arousal from rare RPEs, compared to common RPEs of identical magnitudes. Dopamine neuron recordings indicated that rare rewards amplified RPE responses. These results demonstrate that dopamine responses reflect probability distributions and suggest a neural mechanism for the amplified learning and enhanced arousal associated with rare events.
ish their critical task of removing infected cells and fighting pathogens, leukocytes activate by forming specialized interfaces with other cells. Using an innovative micropipette rheometer, we show in three different cell types that when stimulated by microbeads mimicking target cells, leukocytes become up to ten times stiffer and more viscous. These mechanical changes initiate within seconds after contact and evolve rapidly over minutes. Remarkably, leukocyte elastic and viscous properties evolve in parallel, preserving a well-defined ratio that constitutes a mechanical signature specific to each cell type. The current results indicate that simultaneously tracking both elastic and viscous properties during an active cell process provides a new way to investigate cell mechanical processes. Our findings also suggest that dynamic immuno-mechanical measurements provide an identifier of leuko-cyte type and an indicator of the cell9s state of activation.
 elements (REs) consist of enhancers and promoters that occupy a significant portion of the non-coding genome and control gene expression programs either in -cis or in -trans. Putative REs have been identified largely based on their regulatory features (co- occupancy of ESC-specific transcription factors, enhancer histone marks and DNase hypersensitivity) in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). However, less has been established regarding their regulatory functions in their native context. We deployed cis- and trans-regulatory elements scanning through saturating mutagenesis and sequencing (ctSCAN-SMS) to target elements within the ~12kb cis-region of the Oct4 gene locus, as well as genome-wide 2,613 high-confidence trans-REs (TREs), in mESCs. The ctSCAN-SMS identified 10 CREs and 12 TREs, as novel candidate REs of the Oct4 gene in mESCs. Furthermore, deletion of these REs confirmed that the majority of the CREs and TREs are functionally active, and involved in regulating Oct4 gene expression. Additionally, a subset of the functional CREs and TREs physically interact with the Oct4 promoter to varying degrees through intra- and inter-chromosomal interactions, respectively. Comparative genomics analysis reveals that functional CREs are more conserved in terms of their regulatory sequence conservation between mouse and primates (including humans) than TREs. Notably, a few active CREs are devoid of canonical regulatory features. Taken together, our work demonstrates the reliability and robustness of ctSCAN-SMS screening to identify critical REs, and probe their roles in the regulation of transcriptional output of a target gene (in this case Oct4).
 imaging conventionally results in a single image plane oriented perpendicular to the optical axis. However, in brain slice or in vivo recording, neuronal or circuit morphologies lie in arbitrarily tilted planes. Consequently the spatiotemporal advantages of wide-field non-scanned imaging are lost because of the time required for stepwise focal readjustments to view an entire neuron or network. We describe an application of remote focus that views simultaneously two planes separated by up to 100 m, each with variable tilt from the conventional image plane. This permits fluorescence detection of ion fluxes or membrane potential across neuronal compartments and their correlation with electrical activity. Further, two fluorophores can be viewed simultaneously in each plane. We show (i) neuronal images tilted to optimise simultaneous aquisition of somatic, dendritic and axonal compartments; (ii) networks viewed simultaneously at 2 depths separated by up to 100 m, (iii) widefield imaging at 30 Hz of Gcamp5 fluorescence during spontaneous spiking  in motoneuron layers of zebrafish spinal cord separated by 30-40 microns.
arcinoma is an aggressive cancer originating from the bile duct. Although cholangiocarcinoma does occur in families, to date no specific causative gene has been identified. We identified  ATG7  as a cancer susceptibility gene using a joint genetic analysis of an extended pedigree with familial cholangiocarcinoma in combination with a population genetic association study.  Affected family members had a germline mutation (c.2000C&amp;gt;T [p.Arg659*]) in the autophagy related gene,  ATG7 , and all of the affected individuals had cholangiocarcinoma tumors harboring somatic genomic deletions of  ATG7 . From a population genetic study, we identified a germline polymorphism of  ATG7  (c.1591C&amp;gt;G [p.Asp522Glu]) associated with increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma. The autophagy substrate p62 demonstrated a higher accumulation in tumors of p.Asp522Glu carriers compared with non-carriers indicating defective autophagy. To determine whether the germline  ATG7  mutation had functional consequences, we developed an  ATG7 -deficient cholangiocyte cell line, derived from human bile duct, to test for autophagy-mediated lipidation activity.  The germline mutation from the familial cholangiocarcinoma demonstrated a lack of lipidation activity compared to the wildtype  ATG7 .  Moreover, in zebrafish embryos depleted of  atg7 , a reproducible necrotic head phenotype was rescued by injection of wildtype  ATG7  but not mutant  ATG7 .  Our findings point to  ATG7  as a causative genetic risk factor for cholangiocarcinoma and implicate autophagy as a novel cancer driver mechanism.
ing the drivers of diversity gradients can be challenging. The Measurement of Biodiversity (MoB) framework decomposes changes in species diversity into three components of community structure: the species abundance distribution (SAD), the total community abundance, and the within-species spatial aggregation. Here we extend MoB from categorical treatment comparisons to quantify variation along continuous geographic or environmental gradients. Our approach requires sites along a gradient, each consisting of georeferenced plots of abundance-based species composition data. We demonstrate our method using a case study of ants sampled along an elevational gradient of 28 sites in mixed deciduous forest of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, USA. MoB analysis revealed that ant species richness decreased along the elevational gradient because of changes in the SAD and in spatial aggregation, but not because of changes in the number of individuals. Specifically, with increasing elevation, species evenness was lower and species were less aggregated. These results do not support the more-individuals hypothesis; alternative hypotheses are required to explain why evenness and aggregation decrease with elevation. Our extension of MoB has the potential to elucidate the drivers of diversity along environmental gradients and should be useful for a variety of assemblage-level data collected along gradients.
that cause ribosome stalling or impair the cell9s protective response to stalling have been demonstrated to cause neurodegeneration, yet the mechanisms underlying these pathologies remain poorly understood. Here we investigated the fate of defective proteins translated from stall-inducing, nonstop mRNA that escape ubiquitylation by the Ribosome-associated Quality Control (RQC) E3 ligase LTN1. We found that nonstop protein products accumulated in nucleoli and this localization was driven by polylysine tracts produced by translation of the poly(A) tail of nonstop mRNA. Nucleolar sequestration increased the solubility of invading proteins but disrupted nucleoli, altering their dynamics, morphology, and resistance to stress. Changes in nucleolar morphology are consistent with a simple physical model in which LTN1 impairment enhances the inter-molecular interactions of nucleolar components. Our work elucidates how failure to degrade the protein products of stalled translation may affect distal cellular processes and will inform studies on the pathology of neurodegenerative disease.
b (Dara), a multiple myeloma (MM) therapy, is an antibody against the surface receptor CD38, which is expressed not only on plasma cells but also on NK cells and monocytes. Correlative data have highlighted the immune-modulatory role of Dara, despite the paradoxical observation that Dara regimens decrease the frequency of total NK cells. Here we show that, despite this reduction, NK cells play a pivotal role in Dara anti-MM activity. CD38 on NK cells is essential for Dara-induced immune modulation, and its expression is restricted to NK cells with effector function. We also show that Dara induces rapid CD38 protein degradation associated with NK cell activation, leaving an activated CD38-negative NK cell population. CD38+ NK cell targeting by Dara also promotes monocyte activation, inducing an increase in T cell costimulatory molecules (CD86/80) and enhancing anti-MM phagocytosis activity ex-vivo and in vivo. In support of Dara9s immunomodulating role, we show that MM patients that discontinued Dara therapy because of progression maintain targetable unmutated surface CD38 expression on their MM cells, but retain effector cells with impaired cellular immune function. In summary, we report that CD38+ NK cells may be an unexplored therapeutic target for priming the immune system of MM patients.
lassifications of the Earth9s climates date back to the ancient Greeks, the climatic regions shaping the distribution of animals remain poorly resolved. Here we present a classification of global climates based on regularities in realised niches of 3657 amphibians, 7204 reptiles, 10684 birds and 4574 mammals. We found 16 main climatic regions that are mostly consistent across groups and previous plant expert-based classifications, confirming the existence of major climatic restrictions for life. The results also suggest that differences among groups likely relate to their particular adaptations and dispersal capabilities. We further show how the integration of species niche classifications with geographical information provides valuable information on potential mechanisms shaping the climatic regions. Our climate classification has applications in several disciplines, including conservation planning and ecological and evolutionary studies.
able sequence-specific adaptive immune system, CRISPR-Cas is a powerful molecular mechanism shaping strain diversity in host-virus systems. Nevertheless, the structure and dynamics of host-virus interactions associated with diversification remain largely unexplored. We quantified the network structures of infection (9who infects whom9) and immunity (9who is protected from whom9) in a stochastic Lotka-Volterra model of host and viral populations including evolution. The coevolutionary dynamics exhibit an alternation between periods of virus-host diversification and host control. In periods of diversification, infection networks are partitioned into modules of hosts and viruses, reflecting the emergence of niches within which viruses can grow as the result of negative frequency-dependent selection. Acquisition of immunity closes available niches and builds a weighted-nested immunity network, representing redundant protection and causing a shift to a host-controlled regime. The nested structure enforces an orderly virus extinction which in turn increases the potential for an escape mutation in viruses and another transition to a virus-diversification regime. These dynamics and structures are not obtained under neutral scenarios lacking specific immunity. FInally, the immunity networks in three empirical systems also exhibit weighted nestedness, a pattern our theory shows is indicative of host control. Our findings emphasize the role that network structure plays in CRISPR-induced host-virus coevolution, providing one explanation for existing host/viral diversity in natural and empirical systems.
: The study of retroviruses dates back to the early 1900s during investigations on neoplastic diseases in chickens. Subsequently, Robert Gallo reported the first human retrovirus HLTV in 1980. What we report here is not an archetypal retrovirus, but the discovery of an oncogenic giant microbial agent with a mega-genome, where the transforming retroviral nature co-exists with multiple archaeal oncogenes. Methods: After their isolation from human T cells Leukaemia, these organisms were examined at electron microscopy, tested for reverse transcriptase activity, fully sequenced, used for transformation tests on NIH-3T3 cells in vitro and tumours formation in mice. Same type of particles were also isolated from Canine Transmissible Venereal Tumour (CTVT), the oldest contagious cancer in nature.Results: EM showed the presence of giant viral particles displaying retroviral antigens. These microbial entities harbour in their mega-genome a transforming retroviral kinase, cell-based oncogenes and have reverse transcriptase activity. The purified viral particles transformed NIH-3T3 cells and induced metastatic tumours in nude mice, three weeks post infection. Ruling out the possible presence of filterable retroviruses, a filtered supernatant did not display RT activity and did not transforms.Conclusions: We discovered an ancestral microbial agent, acutely transforming. For its giant dimensions, the ability to retain the Gram stain, the presence of a mega-genome and its retroviral nature, we tentatively named the agent Retro-Giant-Virus (RGV). However, distinct from amoeba giant Mimiviruses, this transforming human agent has a different nature and does not require for its isolation amoeba co-culture, since amoeba is not its natural host. The morphology, biology and genetic features allocate this mammalian giant microbe halfway in between a classic oncogenic virus and an infectious cancer cell. Its transforming nature goes with its constant ability to induce tumours formation in mice.
nhibition of proteins modulating epigenetic changes is an increasingly important priority in cancer therapeutics, and many small molecule inhibitors are currently being developed. In the case of neuroblastoma (NB), a paediatric solid tumour with a paucity of intragenic mutations, epigenetic deregulation may be especially important. In this study we validate the histone methyltransferase G9a/EHMT2 as being associated with indicators of poor prognosis in NB. Immunological analysis of G9a protein shows it to be more highly expressed in NB cell-lines with MYCN amplification, which is a primary determinant of dismal outcome in NB patients. Furthermore, G9a protein in primary tumours is expressed at higher levels in poorly differentiated/undifferentiated NB, and correlates with high EZH2 expression, a known co-operative oncoprotein in NB. Our functional analyses demonstrate that siRNA-mediated G9a depletion inhibits cell growth in all NB cell lines, but, strikingly, only triggers apoptosis in NB cells with MYCN amplification, suggesting a synthetic lethal relationship between G9a and MYCN. This pattern of sensitivity is also evident when using small molecule inhibitors of G9a, UNC0638 and UNC0642. The increased efficacy of G9a inhibition in the presence of MYCN-overexpression is also demonstrated in the SHEP-21N isogenic model with tet-regulatable MYCN. Finally, using RNA sequencing, we identify several potential tumour suppressor genes that are reactivated by G9a inhibition in NB, including the CLU, FLCN, AMHR2 and AKR1C1-3. Together, our study underlines the under-appreciated role of G9a in NB, especially in MYCN-amplified tumours.
sphere stroke can impair the ability to recognise one9s contralesional body parts as belonging to one9s self. The study of this so-called 9disturbed sense of limb ownership9 (DSO) can provide unique insights into the neurocognitive mechanisms of body ownership. Here, we address a hypothesis built upon experimental studies on body ownership in healthy volunteers. These studies have shown that affective (pleasant) touch, an interoceptive modality associated with unmyelinated, slow-conducting C tactile afferents, has a unique role in the sense of body ownership. Here we systematically investigated whether affective touch stimulation could increase body ownership in patients with DSO following right hemisphere stroke. An initial feasibility study in 16 adult, acute stroke patients enabled us to optimise and calibrate an affective touch protocol to be administered by the bedside. The main experiment, conducted with a different sample of 26 right hemisphere patients, assessed changes in limb ownership elicited following self- (patient) versus other- (experimenter) generated tactile stimulation, using a velocity known to optimally activate C-tactile fibres (i.e. 3cm/s), and a second velocity that is suboptimal for C-tactile activation (i.e. 18cm/s). We further examined the specificity and mechanism of observed changes in limb ownership in secondary analyses looking at (1) the influence of perceived intensity and pleasantness of touch, (2) touch laterality, and (3) level of DSO on ownership change, as well as (4) changes in unilateral neglect arising from touch. Findings indicated a significant increase in limb ownership following experimenter-administered, CT-optimal touch. Voxel-based Lesion-Symptom Mapping (VLSM) identified damage to the right insula and, more substantially, the right corpus callosum, associated with a failure to increase body ownership following experimenter-administered, affective touch. Our findings suggest that affective touch can increase the sense of body-part ownership following right hemisphere stroke, potentially due to its unique role in the multisensory integration processes that underlie the sense of body ownership.
onse is regulated by a group of AUX/IAA transcriptional inhibitors that suppress auxin signaling in the absence of the hormone. While the degradation of these proteins upon auxin signaling has been well studied, the molecular control of their rapid turnover is not clearly understood. Here, we report that the TARANI/ UBIQUITIN PROTEASE 14 protein in Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) is required for AUX/IAA degradation. The tni mutation was originally identified in a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with altered leaf shape. Detailed phenotypic analysis revealed that tni displays pleiotropic phenotypic alterations that resemble auxin related defects. The activity of auxin responsive reporters DR5::GUS, DR5::nYFP and IAA2::GUS was reduced in tni organs, implying that TNI is required for normal auxin response. Genetic interaction studies suggested that TNI acts along with TIR1, ARF7, AUX1 and PIN1 molecules involved in auxin signaling or transport. A map-based cloning approach combined with next-generation sequencing identified TNI as UBIQUITIN SPECIFIC PROTEASE14 which is involved in ubiquitin recycling. In tni, the mutant primary transcript is spliced inefficiently, which is predicted to produce an aberrant protein product in addition to the normal protein, where a polypeptide corresponding to the 3rd intron in inserted in frame within the Zn finger domain of UBP14. The tni plants accumulated poly ubiquitin chains and excess poly ubiquitinated proteins due to reduced TNI activity. Improper ubiquitin recycling affected the degradation of DIIVENUS, IAA18GUS and HSAXR3NTGUS, resulting in their stabilization in the tni mutant. Thus, our study identified a function for TNI/UBP14 in regulating auxin response through ubiquitin recycling.
ircadian clocks organize animal behavior and physiology and are entrained by ecologically-relevant external time-givers such as light and temperature cycles. In the highly social honey bee, social time-givers are important and can override photic entrainment, but the cues mediating social synchronization are unknown. Here we tested whether substrate-borne vibrations and hive volatiles can mediate social synchronization in honey bees. We first placed newly-emerged worker bees on the same or on a different substrate on which we placed cages with foragers entrained to ambient day- night cycles, while minimizing transfer of volatiles between cages. In the second experiment, we exposed young bees to constant airflow coming from either a free-foraging colony or a similar size control hive containing only empty combs, while minimizing transfer of substrate-borne vibrations between cages. After five days, we individually isolated each focal bee in an individual cage in an environmental chamber, and monitored locomotor activity. We repeated each experiment five times, each trail with bees from a different source colony, monitoring a total of more than 1000 bees representing diverse genotypes. We found that bees placed on the same substrate as foragers showed a stronger phase coherence; and in 3 of 5 trials their phase was more similar to that of foragers, compared to bees placed on a different substrate. In the second experiment, bees exposed to air from a colony showed a stronger phase coherence, and in 4 out of 5 trial their phase was more similar to that of foragers, compared to control bees exposed to air from an empty hive. These findings lend credence to the hypothesis that surrogates of activity such as substrate-borne vibrations, and volatile cues entrain circadian rhythms in natural free-foraging honey bee colonies.
cannabinoid receptor agonists (SCRAs) are new psychoactive substances associated with acute intoxication and even death. However, the molecular mechanisms through which SCRAs may exert their toxic effects remain unclear - including the potential differential activation of G protein subtypes by CB1, a major target of SCRA. We measured CB1-mediated activation of Gs and Gi/o proteins by SCRAs by examining stimulation (PTX-treated) as well as inhibition (non-PTX treated) of forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation in HEK cells stably expressing CB1. Real-time measurements of stimulation and inhibition of cAMP levels were made using a BRET biosensor. We found that the maximum concentration of SCRAs tested (10 M), increased cAMP levels 12 to 45% above that produced by forskolin alone, while the phytocannabinoid THC did not significantly alter cAMP levels in PTX-treated HEK-CB1 cells. All SCRAs had greater potency to inhibit of forskolin-induced cAMP levels than to stimulate cAMP levels. The rank order of potencies for SCRA stimulation of cAMP (Gs) was PB-22 &amp;gt; 5F-MDMB-PICA &amp;gt; JWH-018 &amp;gt; AB-FUBINACA &amp;gt; XLR-11. By contrast, the potency of SCRAs for inhibition of cAMP (Gi/o) was 5F-MDMB-PICA &amp;gt; AB-FUBINACA &amp;gt; PB-22 &amp;gt; JWH-018 &amp;gt; XLR-11. The different rank order of potency of the SCRAs to stimulate Gs-like signalling compared to Gi/o signalling suggests differences in G protein preference between SCRAs. Understanding the apparent differences among these drugs may contribute to unravelling their complex effects in humans.
 on representation in graduate programs show that, while academia is moving forward in terms of generating diverse cohorts of students and faculty, representation still has not reached parity. These discrepancies in representation are seen at the graduate student level and intensify as academic rank increases. While there have been strides to improve representation through more thoughtful recruitment, a new discussion is emerging around inclusion and retention of under-represented minorities. Inclusive programs are that which center and prioritize support for diverse experiences, identities, career goals, and perspectives actively and continuously from recruitment through graduation. An emerging area of focus for inclusion efforts is graduate student programs. Graduate education programs provide significant opportunities for inclusive programming, and conversely, a program that does not take efforts to improve both diversity and inclusion can often contribute to further disparity in representation. While there are many efforts across programs to address inclusion, there is room for improvement on developing cohesive and effective programming that targets the many areas of needed change in order to improve institutional inclusivity. Here, we argue that graduate education programs should utilize a systems change framework to evaluate areas of progress and need in their program as it relates to inclusion. A systems-change approach emphasizes three levels of changes: explicit change (e.g. policies), semi-explicit change (e.g. power dynamics), and implicit change (e.g. biases). We use the Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior (EEB) PhD Program at the University of Texas at Austin in an exercise to (1) identify areas of concern regarding inclusive programming voiced by graduate students and (2) categorize efforts to address these concerns about inclusive programming into a systems change frame, and finish by (3) integrating and evaluating which areas of the systems change framework show the greatest progress and greatest need for the UT EEB graduate program. We acknowledge that the specific examples here are of particular relevance to other EEB programs, as they may see similar patterns in graduate student needs and efforts to address them. But, the exercise itself is certainly not limited to EEB programs. We encourage any graduate program, as well as any departments or even larger institution, to consider undergoing this exercise in order to more effectively address inequity in their own domains.
: While somatic mutagenesis is the driving force of most human cancers, the germline genome is of significant clinical value in several tumor types. Cancer predisposition variants are important for risk management and surveillance, and can also have major implications for treatment strategies since many are in DNA repair genes. Following the incorporation of high-throughput DNA sequencing in cancer clinics and research, there is thus a need to provide clinically oriented sequencing reports for risk-associated germline variants and their potential therapeutic relevance on a per patient basis. Results: We have developed the Cancer Predisposition Sequencing Reporter (CPSR), an open-source computational workflow that provides a structured report of germline variants identified in known cancer predisposition genes. Building upon existing knowledge sources and variant databases relevant for cancer susceptibility, CPSR combines a transparent and cancer-dedicated scoring scheme for variant pathogenicity (American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics, ACMG) with existing variant classifications from ClinVar in order to derive a structured and prioritised list of variant findings. The workflow outputs a comprehensive and interactive HTML report that highlights putative markers of therapeutic, prognostic and diagnostic relevance. Importantly, the set of cancer predisposition genes profiled in the report can be flexibly chosen from nearly 40 virtual gene panels established by scientific experts, enabling a customization of the report for different screening purposes. The report can be configured to also list potential incidental variant findings as recommended by ACMG, as well as the status of low-risk variants from genome-wide association studies in cancer.Availability and Implementation: The software is implemented in Python/R, and is freely available through Docker technology. Documentation, example reports, and installation instructions are accessible via the project GitHub page: https://github.com/sigven/cpsr .
 interferon (IFN) response is an important component of the innate immune response to viral infection. Precise control of interferon responses is critical, as insufficient levels of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) can lead to a failure to restrict viral spread, while excessive ISG activation results in interferon-related pathologies. While both positive and negative regulatory factors can control the magnitude and duration of IFN signaling, it is also appreciated that a number of ISGs regulate aspects of the interferon response themselves. However, the mechanisms underlying complex ISG regulatory networks remain incompletely defined. In this study, we performed a CRISPR activation screen to identify new regulators of type I IFN responses. We identified ETS variant transcription factor 7 (ETV7), a strongly induced ISG, as a protein that acts as a negative regulator of the type I IFN response; however, ETV7 did not uniformly suppress ISG transcription. Instead, ETV7 specifically targeted a subset of ISGs for regulation based on their promoter sequences. We further showed the subset of ETV7-modulated ISGs is particularly important for control of influenza viruses. Together, our data demonstrate that ETV7 is a component of the complex ISG regulatory network by controlling the expression of a subset of ISGs with a potential role in directing the interferon response against specific viruses.
g proteins(DBP) are associated with many cellular level functions which includes but not limited to body9s defense mechanism and oxygen transportation. They bind DNAs and interact with them. However, in the recent years researchers are using supervised learning to identify DBPs solely from protein sequences. In this paper, we apply deep learning methods to identify DBPs. We have proposed two different deep learning based methods for identifying DBPs: DeepDBP-ANN and DeepDBP CNN. DeepDBP-ANN uses a generated set of features trained on traditional neural network and DeepDBP-CNN uses a pre-learned embedding and Convolutional Neural Network.Both of our proposed methods were able to produce state-of-the-art results when tested on standard benchmark datasets. DeepDBP-ANN had a train accuracy of 99.02% and test accuracy of 82.80%. And DeepDBP-CNN though had train accuracy of 94.32%, it excelled at identifying test instances with 84.31% accuracy. All methods are available codes and methods are available for use at: https://github.com/antorkhan/DNABinding.
ecule research delivers a unique biological insight by capturing the movement of individual proteins in real time, unobscured by whole-cell ensemble averaging. The critical first step in single molecule analyses is event detection, so called &quot;idealisation&quot;, where noisy raw data are turned into discrete records of protein movement. The most common type of single molecule research is electrophysiological patch-clamp recording of ion channel gating. To date, there have been practical limitations in the analyses pipelines for ion channel or other single molecule data; they are typically manually performed; laborious and require human supervision. In addition, this task can become infeasible with complex biological data containing many distinct native single ion channel proteins gating simultaneously. In this report we describe an &quot;artificial intelligence&quot; deep learning model for analyses of single molecule data, based on convolutional neural networks (CNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM) architecture. This network automatically idealises complex single-molecule activity more accurately and faster than manual &quot;threshold crossing&quot; analyses. We believe this is the first use of deep learning to analyse single-molecule datasets and such methods may revolutionise the unsupervised automatic detection of ion channel and other single-molecule transition events in the future.
: Pathogenic copy number variants (CNVs) increase risk for medical disorders, even among carriers free from neurodevelopmental disorders. The UK Biobank recruited half a million adults who provided samples for biochemical and haematology tests which have recently been released. We wanted to assess how the presence of pathogenic CNVs affects these biochemical test results. Methods: We called all CNVs from the Affymetrix microarrays and selected a set of 54 CNVs implicated as pathogenic (including their reciprocal deletions/duplications) and present in five or more persons. We used linear regression analysis to establish their association with 28 biochemical and 23 haematology tests. Results: We analysed 421k participants who passed our CNV quality control filters and self-reported as white British or Irish descent. There were 268 associations between CNVs and biomarkers that were significant at a false discovery rate of 0.05. Deletions at 16p11.2 had the highest number of significant associations, but several rare CNVs had higher effect sizes indicating that the lack of significance was likely due to the reduced statistical power for rarer events. The distribution of values can be visualised on our interactive website: http://kirov.psycm.cf.ac.uk/. Conclusions: Carriers of many pathogenic CNVs have changes in biochemical and haematology tests, and many of those are associated with adverse health consequences. These changes did not always correlate with increases in diagnosed medical disorders in this population. Carriers should have regular blood tests in order to identify and treat adverse medical consequences early. Levels of cholesterol and related lipids were unexpectedly lower in carriers of CNVs associated with increased weight gain, most likely due to the use of statins by such people.
endent Acquisition (DIA) generates comprehensive yet complex mass spectrometric data, which imposes the use of data-dependent acquisition (DDA) libraries for deep peptide-centric detection. We here show that DIA can be redeemed from this dependency by combining predicted fragment intensities and retention times with narrow window DIA. This eliminates variation in library building and omits stochastic sampling, finally making the DIA workflow fully deterministic. Especially for clinical proteomics, this has the potential to facilitate inter-laboratory comparison.
 of activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) is critical for long-term synaptic plasticity, memory formation, and cognitive flexibility. The ability of Arc to self-associate and form virus-like capsid structures implies functionally distinct oligomeric states. However, the molecular mechanism of Arc oligomerization is unknown. Here, we identified a 28-amino-acid region necessary and sufficient for Arc oligomerization. This oligomerization region is located within the second coil of a predicted anti-parallel coiled-coil in the N-terminal domain (NTD). Using alanine scanning mutagenesis, we found a 7-amino-acid motif critical for oligomerization and Arc-mediated transferrin endocytosis in HEK cells. Intermolecular fluorescence lifetime imaging in hippocampal neurons confirmed self-association mediated by the motif. To quantify oligomeric size, we performed a single-molecule photobleaching analysis of purified Arc wild-type and mutant. This analysis revealed a critical role for the NTD motif in the formation of higher-order Arc oligomers (30-170 molecules). Moreover, assembly of higher-order wild-type Arc oligomers was significantly enhanced by addition of GFP RNA. Purified wild-type Arc formed virus-like capsids, as visualized by negative-stain EM, and was estimated by light scattering analysis to contain 40-55 Arc units. In contrast, mutant Arc formed a homogenous dimer population as demonstrated by single-molecule TIRF imaging, size-exclusion chromatography with multi-angle light scattering analysis, small-angle X-ray scattering analysis, and single-particle 3D EM reconstruction. Thus, the dimer appears to be the basic building block for assembly. Herein, we show that the NTD motif is essential for higher-order Arc oligomerization, assembly of virus-like capsid particles, and facilitation of oligomerization by exogenous RNA.
al nature has shaped visual perception. A signature of the relationship between vision and sociality is a particular visual sensitivity to social entities such as faces and bodies. We asked whether human vision also exhibits a special sensitivity to spatial relations that reliably correlate with social relations. In general, interacting people are more often situated face-to-face than back-to-back. Using functional MRI and behavioral measures in female and male human participants, we show that visual sensitivity to social stimuli extends to images including two bodies facing toward (vs. away from) each other. In particular, the inferior lateral occipital cortex, which is involved in visual-object perception, is organized such that the inferior portion encodes the number of bodies (one vs. two) and the superior portion is selectively sensitive to the spatial relation between bodies (facing vs. nonfacing). Moreover, functionally localized, body-selective visual cortex responded to facing bodies more strongly than identical, but non-facing, bodies. In this area, multivariate pattern analysis revealed an accurate representation of body dyads with sharpening of the representation of single-body postures in facing dyads, which demonstrates an effect of visual context on the perceptual analysis of a body. Finally, the cost of body inversion (upside-down rotation) on body recognition, a behavioral signature of a specialized mechanism for body perception, was larger for facing vs. non-facing dyads. Thus, spatial relations between multiple bodies are encoded in regions for body perception and affect the way in which bodies are processed.
e and nutrients are two of the most important drivers of global change. Both can modify the elemental composition (i.e. stoichiometry) of primary producers and consumers. Yet their combined effect on the stoichiometry, dynamics, and stability of ecological communities remains largely unexplored. To fill this gap, we extended the Rosenzweig-MacArthur consumer-resource model by including thermal dependencies, nutrient dynamics, and stoichiometric constraints on both the primary producer and the consumer. We found that stoichiometric constraints dampen the paradox of enrichment and increased persistence at high nutrient levels. Nevertheless, they also reduced consumer persistence at extreme temperatures. Finally, we also found that stoichiometric constraints can strongly influence biomass distribution across trophic levels by modulating consumer assimilation efficiency and resource growth rates along the environmental gradients. Our findings highlight the importance of accounting for stoichiometric constraints as they can mediate the temperature and nutrient impact on the dynamics and functioning of ecological communities.
bility of bacterial pangenome data grows exponentially, requiring efficient new methods of analysis. Currently popular approaches for the fast comparison of genomes have the drawback of not being based on explicit evolutionary models of diversification. Making sense of bacterial genome evolution, and notably in the accessory genome, requires however to take into account the complex processes by which the genomes evolve. Here we present the Pantagruel bioinformatic software pipeline, which enables the construction of a complete bacterial pangenome database geared towards the inference of gene evolution scenarios using gene tree/species tree reconciliation. Pantagruel is a modular pipeline that combines state-of-the-art external software with unique new methods. It can be executed with no supervision to perform a standard pangenome analysis, or be configured by advanced users to integrate methods of choice. A relational database underlies its data structure, allowing efficient retrieval of the large-scale data generated by integrative analyses of pangenome evolutionary history. From the reconstructed gene evolution scenarios, two main outputs are derived: firstly the gene tree-aware assignation of orthology, allowing the fine analysis of gene gain and loss history over the species phylogeny, and secondly a network of gene-to-gene association based on correlated events in scenarios of gene evolution, leading to the definition of co-evolved gene modules. Pantagruel is available as an open source software package at https://github.com/flass/pantagruel.
dependent microbiome surveys have been conducted in homes, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and vehicles for public transport, revealing diverse microbial distributions in built environments. However, microbiome surveys have not been conducted in hotel environments; thus, the composition and associated environmental factors are not clear. We presented the first continental-scale microbiome study of hotel rooms (n = 68) spanning large geographic regions. Bacterial and fungal communities were described by amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and quantitative PCR. Similar numbers of bacterial (4,344) and fungal (4,555) operational taxonomic units were identified, but fungal taxa showed a local distribution compared with bacterial taxa. Aerobic, ubiquitous bacteria dominated the hotel microbiome with high compositional similarity to previous samples from building and human nasopharynx environments. The abundance of Aspergillus was negatively correlated with latitude and accounted for ~80% of the total fungal load in seven low-latitude hotels. We calculated the association between hotel microbial dynamics and 16 indoor and outdoor environmental characteristics. Fungal -diversity and quantity showed concordant variation and were associated with the same environmental characteristics, including latitude, quality of the interior, proximity to the sea and visible mold, while -diversity decreased with heavy traffic (95% CI: -127.05 to -0.25) and wall-to-wall carpet (95% CI: -47.60 to -3.82). Bacterial -diversity was associated with latitude, quality of the interior and floor type, while -diversity decreased with recent decoration (95% CI -179.00 to -44.55) and mechanical ventilation (95% CI: -136.71 to -5.12).
ral,  Paramuricea clavata , is a habitat-forming anthozoan with a key ecological role in rocky benthic and biodiversity-rich communities in the Mediterranean and Eastern Atlantic. Shallow populations of  P. clavata  in the North-Western Mediterranean are severely affected by warming-induced mass mortality events (MMEs). These MMEs have differentially impacted individuals and populations of  P. clavata  (i.e. varied levels of tissue necrosis and mortality rates) over thousands of kilometers of coastal areas. The eco-evolutionary processes and genetic factors contributing to these differential responses remain to be characterized. Here, we sequenced a  P. clavata  individual with short and long read technologies, producing 169.98 Gb of Illumina paired-end and 3.55 Gb of Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) reads. We obtained a  de novo  hybrid assembly accounting for 712.4 Mb and 107,682 scaffolds. The contig and scaffold N50 are 15.85 Kb and 17.01 Kb, respectively. Despite of the low contiguity of the assembly, the gene completeness was relatively high, including 86% of the 978 metazoan genes contained in the metazoa_odb9 database. A total of 76,508 protein-coding genes and 85,763 transcripts have been annotated. This assembly is one of the few octocoral genomes currently available. This is undoubtedly a valuable resource for characterizing the genetic bases of the differential responses to thermal stress and for the identification of thermo-resistant individuals and populations. Overall, the genome of  P. clavata  will help to understand various aspects of its evolutionary ecology and to elaborate effective conservation plans such as active restoration actions to overcome the threats of global change.
mic cleft lip/palate (NSCLP), the most common human craniofacial malformations, is a complex disorder given its genetic heterogeneity and multifactorial component revealed by genetic, epidemiological and epigenetic findings. Association of epigenetic variations with NSCLP has been made, however still of little functional investigation. Here we combined a reanalysis of NSCLP methylome data with genetic analysis and used both in vitro and in vivo approaches to dissect the functional effects of epigenetic changes. We found  a frequent differentially methylated region in mir152, hypomethylated in NSCLP cohorts (21- 26%), leading to mir152 overexpression. In vivo analysis using zebrafish embryos revealed that mir152 upregulation leads to craniofacial impairment analogue to palatal defects. Also, we demonstrated that zebrafish embryonic hypoxia leads to mir152 upregulation combined with mir152 hypomethylation and also analogue palatal alterations. We therefore suggest mir152 hypomethylation, potentially induced by hypoxia in early development, as a novel and frequent predisposing factor to NSCLP.
 major challenges in viral ecology is to assess the impact of viruses in controlling the abundance of specific hosts in the environment. For this, techniques that enable the detection and quantification of virus-host interactions at the single-cell level are essential. With this goal in mind, we implemented VirusFISH (Virus Fluorescence  in situ  Hybridization) using as a model the marine picoeukaryote  Ostreococcus tauri  and its virus OtV5. VirusFISH allowed the visualization and quantification of the fraction of infected cells during an infection experiment. We were also able to quantify the abundance of free viruses released during cell lysis and assess the burst size of our non-axenic culture, because we could discriminate OtV5 from phages. Our results showed that although the major lysis of the culture occurred between 24 and 48 h after OtV5 inoculation, some new viruses were produced between 8 and 24 h, propagating the infection. Nevertheless, the production of viral particles increased drastically after 24 h. The burst size for the  O. tauri -OtV5 system was 70.4 OtV5 per cell, which was consistent with the estimated amount of viruses inside the cell prior to cell lysis. With this work we demonstrate that VirusFISH is a promising technique to study specific virus-host interactions in non-axenic cultures, and set the ground for its application in complex natural communities.
al Andes is an important natural laboratory to understand speciation and diversification in many taxa. Here, we examined the evolutionary history of parasites of the Leishmania braziliensis species complex based on whole genome sequencing of 67 isolates from 47 localities in Peru. We firstly show the origin of near-clonal Andean Leishmania lineages that diverged from admixed Amazonian ancestors, accompanied by a significant reduction in genome diversity and large structural variations implicated in host-parasite interactions. Beside a clear dichotomy between Andean and Amazonian species, patterns of population structure were strongly associated with biogeographical origin. Molecular clock analyses and ecological niche modeling suggested that the history of diversification of the Andean lineages is limited to the Late Pleistocene and intimately associated with habitat contractions driven by climate change. These results support a wider model on trypanosomatid evolution where major parasite lineages emerge through ecological fitting. Second, genome-scale analyses provided evidence of meiotic recombination between Andean and Amazonian Leishmania species, resulting in full-genome hybrids. The mitochondrial genome of these hybrids consisted of homogeneous uniparental maxicircles, but minicircles originated from both parental species, leaving a mosaic ancestry of minicircle-encoded guide RNA genes. We further show that mitochondrial minicircles - but not maxicircles - show a similar evolutionary pattern as the nuclear genome, suggesting that biparental inheritance of minicircles is universal and may be important to alleviate maxicircle-nuclear incompatibilities. By comparing full nuclear and mitochondrial genome ancestries, our data expands our appreciation on the genetic consequences of diversification and hybridization in parasitic protozoa.
ease, and environmental stressors are associated with failures in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), yet a quantitative understanding of how stressors affect the proteome and how the UPS responds is lacking. Here we assessed UPS performance and adaptability in yeast under stressors using quantitative measurements of misfolded substrate stability and stress-dependent UPS regulation by the transcription factor Rpn4. We found that impairing degradation rates (proteolytic stress) and generating misfolded proteins (folding stress) elicited distinct effects on the proteome and on UPS adaptation. Folding stressors stabilized proteins via aggregation rather than overburdening the proteasome, as occurred under proteolytic stress. Still, the UPS productively adapted to both stressors using separate mechanisms: proteolytic stressors caused Rpn4 stabilization while folding stressors increased RPN4 transcription. In some cases, adaptation completely prevented loss of UPS substrate degradation. Our work reveals the distinct effects of proteotoxic stressors and the versatility of cells in adapting the UPS.
rmones influence the outcomes of stress exposure and are implicated in stress-related disorders including depression, yet their roles are often complex and seemingly contradictory. Importantly, depression and stress exposure are associated with immune dysregulation, and ovarian hormones have immunomodulatory properties. However, how ovarian hormones can influence the inflammatory outcomes of stress exposure is poorly understood. Here, we examined the effects of long-term ovariectomy on the behavioural and neuroinflammatory outcomes of sub-chronic stress exposure in middle-aged mice. Briefly, sham-operated and ovariectomized mice were assigned to non-stress groups or exposed to 6 days of variable stress. Mice were assessed on a battery of behavioural tests, and cytokine concentrations were quantified in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. Postsynaptic density protein-95 and phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were also measured in the frontal cortex. Long-term ovariectomy modified the central cytokine profile by robustly reducing cytokine concentrations in the frontal cortex and modestly increasing concentrations in the hippocampus. Under non-stress conditions, long-term ovariectomy also reduced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphoprotein expression in the frontal cortex and increased some measures of depressive-like behaviour. The effects of sub-chronic stress exposure were however more pronounced in sham-operated mice. Notably, in sham-operated mice only, sub-chronic stress exposure increased IL-1 and IL-6:IL-10 ratio in the frontal cortex and hippocampus and reduced pERK1/2 expression in the frontal cortex. Further, although sub-chronic stress exposure increased anhedonia-like behaviour regardless of ovarian status, it increased passive-coping behaviour in sham-operated mice only. These data indicate that long-term ovariectomy has potent effects on the central cytokine milieu and mitigates the neuroinflammatory and behavioural effects of sub-chronic stress exposure in middle-aged mice. These findings therefore suggest that the immunomodulatory properties of ovarian hormones are of relevance in the context of stress and possibly depression.
re typically denatured and aggregated by heat. Exceptions to this principle include highly disordered and heat-resistant proteins found in extremophiles, which help these organisms tolerate extreme conditions such as drying, freezing, and high salinity. In contrast, the functions of heat-soluble proteins in non-extremophilic organisms including humans remain largely unexplored. Here we report that heat-resistant obscure (Hero) proteins, which remain soluble after boiling at 95C, are widespread in  Drosophila  and humans. Hero proteins are hydrophilic and highly charged, and function to stabilize various &quot;client&quot; proteins, protecting them from denaturation even under stress conditions such as heat shock, desiccation, and exposure to organic solvents. Hero proteins can also block several different types of pathological protein aggregations in cells and in  Drosophila  strains that model neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, Hero proteins can extend lifespan of  Drosophila . Our study reveals that organisms naturally use Hero proteins as molecular shields to stabilize protein functions, highlighting their biotechnological and therapeutic potential.
hila mushroom body (MB) is a learning and memory center in the fly brain. It is the most extensively studied brain structure in insects, but we know little about the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying assembly of its neural circuit. The MB is composed of around 2200 intrinsic Kenyon cells (KCs), whose axons are bundled to form multiple MB lobes. The MB lobes are innervated by a large number of extrinsic neurons. Twenty types of dopaminergic neurons (DANs) and 21 types of MB output neurons (MBONs) have been identified. Each type of these extrinsic neurons innervates specific compartments or zones in the MB lobes. Here, we characterize the assembly of the MB circuit and reveal several intriguing features of the process. The DANs and MBONs innervate zones in the MB vertical lobes in specific sequential orders. Innervation of DAN axons in some zones precedes that of MBON dendrites, and vice versa in other zones. MBON and DAN innervations are largely independent of each other. Removing one type of extrinsic neuron during early development has a limited effect on the MB lobe innervations of the other type of extrinsic neurons. However, KC axons are essential for zonal elaboration of DAN axons and MBON dendrites. Competition also exists between MB zones for some MBONs, so when the cognate zones for these MBONs are missing, their dendrites are misdirected to other zones. Finally, we identify Semaphorin 1a (Sema1a) as a crucial guidance molecule for MBON dendrites to innervate specific MB lobe zones. Ectopic expression of Sema1a in some DANs is sufficient to re-direct their dendrites to those zones, demonstrating a potential to rewire the MB circuit. Taken together, our work provides an initial characterization of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying MB circuit assembly.
the global significance of cellular targets oncology drug  in cancer, we examined the fitness-dependency - the loss of cancer cell9s viability in the absence of a test gene, of cancer drug targets across human cancer cells in a CRISPR-Cas9 fitness screening dataset, wherein genes were selectively knocked-down before assaying for the fitness-dependency of 7470 genes in 324 cancer cell lines representing 19 cancer-types. We observed that depletion of 35 out of 47 fitness targets of oncology drugs did not result in an otherwise expected loss of cell fitness in appropriate cancer-types for which drugs targeting these molecules were approved. This raises the possibility of undesirable drug-associated off-target effects in such cancers. In addition, our analysis allowed recognition of 41 drug targets as fitness genes in several cancer-types as candidate targets for repurposing approved oncology drugs for cancer-types in which these drugs were not approved.  For example, we found widespread upregulation and associated reduction in the duration of overall survival of cancer patients, and fitness-dependency of the components of mevalonate and purine biosynthesis pathways (currently targeted by bisphosphonates, statins and pemetrexed in certain cancers) in breast and other hard-to-treat cancers for which these drugs are not approved. In brief, the present analysis raises caution about the likelihood of off-target and undesirable drug-associated effects of certain oncology drugs in a subset of cancers where intended drug targets are not fitness genes. This also offers a rationale for repurposing a set of approved oncology drugs for cancer-types that have significant fitness-dependency on a set of cellular targets of such approved drugs.
e has substantial maladaptive behavioral consequences, suggesting that a sustained stream of sensory inputs and motor outputs is necessary for the maintenance of optimal motor functions. Besides the actual execution of movements, the activation of mental representation of movements alone, or Motor Imagery (MI), is known to significantly engage motor networks. Based in such observation, MI should, at least in part, compensate for maladaptive neuroplasticity elicited by immobilization. Although highly relevant for clinical conditions associated with transient (e.g. after orthopedic injury) or chronic (e.g. after stroke) limb immobilization, this hypothesis and associated underlying neural mechanisms remain underexplored. Moreover, durable changes due to immobilization may also implicate sleep processes. To address these questions, here we investigated the potential benefits of MI practice during 11 h of unilateral arm-immobilization on the sensorimotor and cortical representations of the arms, as well as on subsequent sleep characteristics. Using a within-subjects design, fourteen participants were first tested after a normal day of motor activity (without immobilization, Baseline), followed by two randomized 11-hr conditions of immobilization of the right (dominant) arm, either with concomitant MI practice (15 min every two hours; MI) or without MI training but a neutral task during an equivalent time (NoMI), one week apart.  At the end of each condition (Baseline, MI, NoMI), participants were tested on a hand laterality judgment task to assess changes in the sensorimotor representation of the hands, followed by a measure of cortical excitability of the primary motor cortices (M1). Polysomnography recordings were acquired during the subsequent night to assess condition-dependent modulations of sleep features. Data revealed that MI practice prevented the following consequences of arm immobilization: (i) alteration of the sensorimotor representation of hands, (ii) decrease of cortical excitability over M1 contralateral to arm-immobilization, (iii) reduction of sleep spindles over both M1s, and (iv) decrease in total time spent in REM sleep. Altogether, these results provide strong evidence that implementing MI within the context of limb-immobilization can substantially limit the deleterious effects of limb disuse, at several levels of sensorimotor functioning.
en receptor (ER) mechanisms by which 17b-estradiol influences depressive-like behaviour have primarily been investigated acutely and not within an animal model of depression. Therefore, the current study aimed to dissect the contribution of ERa; and ERb to the effects of 17b-estradiol under non-stress and chronic stress conditions. Ovariectomized (OVX) or sham-operated mice were treated chronically (47 days) with 17b;-estradiol (E2), the ERb;; agonist diarylpropionitrile (DPN), the ERa; agonist propylpyrazole-triol (PPT), or vehicle. On day 15 of treatment, mice from each group were assigned to Chronic Unpredictable Stress (CUS; 28 days) or non-CUS conditions. Mice were assessed for anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. Immune mediators and markers of plasticity (postsynaptic density protein 95 and neurogenesis) were measured in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Overall, the effects of CUS were more robust that those of estrogenic treatments, as seen by increased immobility in the tail suspension test (TST), reduced PSD-95 expression, reduced neurogenesis in the ventral hippocampus, and HPA axis negative feedback dysregulation. However, we also observe CUS-dependent and -independent effects of ovarian status and estrogenic treatments. The effects of CUS on PSD-95 expression, the cytokine milieu, and in TST were largely driven by PPT and DPN, indicating that these treatments were not protective. Independent of CUS, 17b-estradiol increased neurogenesis in the ventral hippocampus, blunted the corticosterone response to an acute stressor, but increased anxiety-like behaviour. These findings provide insights into the complexities of estrogen signaling in modulating depressive-like phenotypes under non-stress and chronic stress conditions.
elated programs essential for cellular fitness in the face of stress are critical to understanding tumorigenesis, neurodegeneration, and aging. However, modelling the combinatorial landscape of stresses experienced by diseased cells is challenging, leaving functional relationships within the global stress response network incompletely understood. Here, we leverage genome-scale fitness screening data from 625 cancer cell lines, each representing a unique biological context, to build a network of &quot;coessential&quot; gene relationships centered around master regulators of the response to proteotoxic, oxidative, hypoxic, and genotoxic stress. This approach organizes the stress response into functional modules, identifies genes connecting distinct modules, and reveals mechanisms underlying cellular dependence on individual modules. As an example of the power of this approach, we discover that the previously unannotated HAPSTR (C16orf72) promotes resilience to diverse stressors as a stress-inducible regulator of the E3 ligase HUWE1. Altogether, we present a broadly applicable framework along with an interactive tool (http://fireworks.mendillolab.org/) to interrogate biological networks using unbiased genetic screens.
ne (T) mediates a variety of traits that function in competition for mates, including territorial aggression, ornaments, armaments, and gametogenesis. The link between T and mating competition has been studied mainly in males, but females also face selection pressures to compete for mates. Sex-role reversed species, in which females are the more competitive sex, provide a unique perspective on the role of T in promoting competitive traits. Here, we examine patterns of T secretion in sex-role reversed Northern Jacanas (Jacana spinosa) during breeding, when females are fertile and males are either seeking copulations or conducting parental care. We measured baseline levels of T in circulation along with a suite of behavioral and morphological traits putatively involved in mating competition. We evaluated hypotheses that levels of T track gonadal sex and parental role, and we begin to investigate whether T and competitive traits co-vary in a sex- and stage- specific manner.  Although females had higher expression of competitive traits than males at either breeding stage, we found that females and incubating males had similar levels of T secretion, which were lower than those observed in copulating males. T was correlated with wing spur length in females and testes mass in copulating males, but was otherwise uncorrelated with other competitive traits. These findings suggest that levels of T in circulation alone do not predict variation in competitive traits across levels of analysis, including gonadal sex and parental role. Instead, our findings coupled with prior research indicate that selection for female mating competition and male care may generate different physiological regulation of competitive traits in jacanas.
on: Understanding how transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) interacts with cortical circuits is enhanced through biophysical modeling. Existing population-based models of TMS-evoked activity and plasticity evaluate changes in cortical synaptic weights. However, it remains unclear how these changes impact motor-evoked potentials (MEPs), an experimental measure inferring the cortical response to TMS. Objectives: To develop a population-based biophysical model of MEPs following TMS. Methods: We combined an existing MEP model with population-based cortical modeling. Layer 2/3 excitatory and inhibitory neurons are stimulated with TMS and feed layer 5 corticospinal neurons, which also couple directly but weakly to the TMS pulse. The layer 5 output controls mean motoneuron responses, which generate a series of single motor-unit action potentials that are summed to estimate a MEP. Results: A MEP waveform was generated comparable to those observed experimentally. The model captured TMS phenomena including a sigmoidal input-output curve, common paired pulse effects (SICI, ICF, LICI) including responses to pharmacological interventions, and a cortical silent period. Changes in MEP amplitude following theta burst paradigms were observed including variability in outcome direction. Conclusions: Better interpretation of population-based TMS modeling approaches is achieved by interpreting output via MEPs, providing a quantitative link between theoretical models and experimental outcomes.
t nucleoids are large, compact nucleoprotein structures containing multiple copies of the plastid genome. Studies on structural and quantitative changes of plastid DNA (ptDNA) during leaf development are scarce and have produced controversial data. We have systematically investigated nucleoid dynamics and ptDNA quantities in mesophyll of Arabidopsis, tobacco, sugar beet, and maize from the early post-meristematic stage until necrosis. DNA of individual nucleoids was quantified by DAPI-based supersensitive epifluorescence microscopy. Nucleoids occurred in scattered, stacked or ring-shaped arrangements and in recurring patterns during leaf development remarkably similar between the species studied. Nucleoids per organelle varied from few in meristematic plastids to &amp;gt;30 in mature chloroplasts (corresponding to about 20-750 nucleoids per cell). Nucleoid ploidies ranged from haploid to &amp;gt;20-fold even within individual organelles, with average values between 2.6- and 6.7-fold and little changes during leaf development. DNA quantities per organelle increased gradually from about a dozen plastome copies in tiny plastids of apex cells to 70-130 copies in chloroplasts of about 7 m diameter in mature mesophyll tissue, and from about 80 plastome copies in meristematic cells to 2,600-3,300 copies in mature diploid mesophyll cells without conspicuous decline during leaf development. Pulsed-field electrophoresis, restriction of high-molecular weight DNA from chloroplasts and gerontoplasts, and CsCl equilibrium centrifugation of single- and double-stranded ptDNA revealed no noticeable fragmentation of the organelle DNA during leaf development, implying that plastid genomes in mesophyll tissues are remarkably stable until senescence.
t mode network (DMN) consists of several regions that selectively interact to support distinct domains of cognition. Of the various sites that partake in DMN function, the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), temporal parietal junction (TPJ), and medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) are frequently identified as key contributors. Yet, despite the accumulating knowledge surrounding the DMN9s involvement across numerous cognitive measures, it remains unclear whether these subcomponents of the DMN make unique contributions to specific cognitive processes and health conditions. Here, we address this gap at two different levels of analysis. First, using the Neurosynth database and a Gaussian Naive Bayes classifier, we quantified the association between PCC, TPJ, and MPFC activation and specific topics related to cognition and health (e.g., decision making and smoking). This analysis replicated prior observations that the PCC, TPJ, and mPFC collectively support multiple cognitive functions such as social, decision making, memory, and awareness. Second, to gain insight into the functional organization of each site, we parceled each region based on their coactivation patterns with the rest of the brain. This analysis indicated that each region could be further subdivided into discrete subregions, with some exhibiting functionally distinct involvement in certain topics. For example, the ventral part of left-TPJ was associated with emotion, whereas the posterior part was associated with priming. Taken together, our results help further break down regional DMN activity and how each subcomponent contributes to a wide range of cognitive processes and health conditions.
cular nodular heterotopia (PNH) is a common cause of drug-resistant epilepsy, characterized by nodules of ectopic neurons adjacent to the lateral ventricles. It remains controversial whether neurons within the nodules generate epileptic activity. In contrast to other types of cortical malformations, no unique interictal patterns have been described in PNH. We report the first multi-level analysis of long-term microelectrode recordings of the interictal activities from three nodules in two epileptic patients during presurgical evaluation. In both patients, seizures originated from the ectopic nodules. Highly consistent interictal activities were identified in all three nodules 1) trains of periodic slow waves (n=2855), 2) isolated slow deflections (n=1631), both with superimposed fast activity, and 3) epileptic spikes (n=6986). Patterns were highly local and largely invisible on the adjacent macro-electrode contacts. Spike analyses showed that the vast majority of units (n=25) were strongly modulated during all interictal patterns. The same units were involved in all three patterns, while showing different patterns of firing rate modulation during the interictal events. These results are consistent with an altered regulation of cellular excitability and suggest that periodic patterns may result from fluctuation in inhibition and rebound excitation in the same neuronal network.
 social animals whose mental wellbeing is shaped by the ability to attract and connect with each other. In a dating world, in which success can be determined by brief interactions, apart from physical features, there is a whole choreography of movements, physical reactions and subtle expressions that drive sexual attraction. To determine what drives attraction, we measured nonverbal dynamics between people during real-life interactions outside the laboratory, where dating is most relevant. Participants wore eye-tracking glasses with embedded cameras, and devices to measure physiological signals including heart rate and skin conductance. Crucially, visible signals that can be controlled, such as facial expressions or gaze, did not predict attraction. Instead, attraction was predicted by synchrony in heart rate and skin conductance between partners, which are unconscious and difficult to regulate. Our findings suggest that shared emotionality is vital for mutual attraction. Moreover, physiological synchrony may provide a medium for translating visible expressions into embodied emotions, which can turn into intentions via somatosensory simulation.
k suggests that obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients have a breakdown in the relationship between explicit beliefs (i.e. confidence about states) and updates to behaviour. The precise computations underlying this disconnection are unclear because case-control and transdiagnostic studies yield conflicting results. Here, a large general population sample (N = 437) completed a predictive inference task previously studied in the context of OCD. We tested if confidence, and its relationship to action and environmental evidence, were specifically associated with self-reported OCD symptoms or common to an array of psychiatric symptoms. We then investigated if a transdiagnostic approach would reveal a stronger and more specific match between metacognitive deficits and clinical phenotypes. Consistent with prior case-control work, we found that decreases in action-confidence coupling were associated with OCD symptoms, but also 5/8 of the other clinical phenotypes tested (8/8 with no correction applied). This non-specific pattern was explained by a single transdiagnostic symptom dimension characterized by compulsivity that was linked to inflated confidence and several deficits in utilizing evidence to update confidence. These data highlight the importance of metacognitive deficits for our understanding of compulsivity and underscore how transdiagnostic methods may prove a more powerful alternative over studies examining single disorders.
en receptor (AR) is activated in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) despite low circulating levels of androgen, suggesting that intracellular signaling pathways and non-androgenic factors may contribute to AR activation. Many G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) and their ligands are also activated in these cells indicating a role for these in CRPC. Although a cross talk has been suggested between the two pathways, yet, the identity of GPCRs which may play a role in androgen signaling, is not established yet. We demonstrate that adhesion GPCR 205, also known as GPR56, can be activated by androgens to stimulate the Rho signaling pathway, a pathway that plays an important role in prostate tumor cell metastasis. Testosterone stimulation of GPR56 also activates the cAMP/ Protein kinase A (PKA) pathway, that is necessary for AR signaling. Knocking down the expression of GPR56 using siRNA, disrupts nuclear translocation of AR and transcription of prototypic AR target genes such as PSA. GPR56 expression is higher in all prostate tumor samples tested and cells expressing GPR56 exhibit increased proliferation. These findings provide new insights about androgen signaling and identify GPR56 as a possible therapeutic target in advanced prostate cancer patients.
 photopigment protein rhodopsin (Rh) is a typical G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that initiates the phototransduction cascade in retinal disk membrane of rod-photoreceptor cells. Rh molecule has a tendency to form dimer, and the dimer tends to form rows, which is suggested to heighten phototransduction efficiency in single-photon regime. In addition, the dimerization confers Rh an affinity for lipid raft, i.e. raftophilicity. However, the mechanism by which Rh-dimer raftophilicity contributes to the organization of the higher order structure remains unknown. In this study, we performed coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations of a disk membrane model containing unsaturated lipids, saturated lipids with cholesterol, and Rh-dimers. We described the Rh-dimers by two-dimensional particle populations where the palmitoyl moieties of each Rh exhibits raftophilicity. We simulated the structuring of Rh in a disk for two types of Rh-dimer, i.e., the most and second most stable Rh dimers, which exposes the raftophilic regions at the dimerization-interface (H1/H8 dimer) and two edges away from the interface (H4/H5 dimer), respectively. Our simulations revealed that only the H1/H8 dimer could form a row structure. A small number of raftophilic lipids recruited to and intercalated in a narrow space between H1/H8 dimers stabilize the side-by-side interaction between dimers in a row. Our results implicate that the nano-sized lipid raft domains act as a glue to organize the long row structures of Rh-dimers.
ognition is a task which involves multiple brain areas for successful completion. This assay is non-invasive, is an enriched learning task, and relies upon on encoded memory for successful completion. In this study, we have demonstrated that neonatal mice can perform the task
n Targeted Memory Reactivation (TMR) shows that its a successful for increasing memory recall. However, As of yet no systematic study had been conducted to evaluate to what extend TMR can increase recall. This study used a comprehensive literature search to attempt to find all studies conducted in which TMR is used to increase memory recall. Methodological quality, study characteristics and where possible descriptive statistics were extracted from the studies. In total, 41 studies were identified, 26 of which included enough descriptive data to be included in the meta-analysis. The results indicated that the average methodological quality was good. Furthermore, TMR significantly increased memory recall. The subgroup analysis for modality was not significant, while the subgroup analysis for type of memory did yield a significant result. Overall, TMR seems to have small to medium effect on memory recall, is independent of modality and depends on memory.
g cells endowed with the genetic toggle switch has been suggested as a benchmark problem in synthetic biology. It has been shown that a carefully selected periodic forcing can balance a population of such cells in an undifferentiated state. The effectiveness of these control strategies, however, can be mined by the presence of stochastic perturbations and uncertainties typically observed in biological systems and is therefore not robust. Here, we propose the use of feedback control strategies to enhance robustness and performance of the balancing action by selecting in real-time both the amplitude and the duty-cycle of the inducer molecular signals affecting the toggle switch behavior. We show, via in-silico experiments and realistic agent-based simulations, the effectiveness of the proposed strategies even in presence of uncertainties and stochastic effects. In so doing, we confirm previous observations made in the literature about coherence of the population when pulsatile forcing inputs are used but, contrary to what proposed in the past, we leverage feedback control techniques to endow the balancing strategy with unprecedented robustness and stability properties. We compare via in-silico experiments different control solutions and show their advantages and limitations from an in-vivo implementation viewpoint.
disease results from gain of function mutations in the gene encoding glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an intermediate filament protein expressed in astrocytes. At least eight GFAP isoforms have been described, however, the predominant alpha isoform accounts for approximately 90% of GFAP protein in the central nervous system. Here we describe exonic variants identified in three unrelated families with Type II Alexander disease that alter the splicing of GFAP pre-mRNA and result in upregulation of a previously uncharacterised GFAP lambda isoform (NM_001363846.1). Affected members of Family 1 and Family 2 shared the same missense variant, NM_001363846.1:c.1289G&amp;gt;A;p.(Arg430His) while in Family 3 we identified a synonymous variant in the adjacent nucleotide, NM_001363846.1:c.1290C&amp;gt;A;p.(Arg430Arg). Using RNA and protein analysis of brain autopsy samples, and a mini-gene splicing reporter assay, we demonstrate both variants result in upregulation of the lambda isoform. We assessed other GFAP variants in the ClinVar database for predicted aberrant splicing and, using the same assay, demonstrated significant changes to splicing for two selected variants. In one case, we found that altered splicing due to a +5 intronic variant resulted in the inclusion of the GFAP kappa isoform. Our approach demonstrates the importance of characterizing the effect of GFAP variants on mRNA splicing in order to inform future pathophysiologic and therapeutic study for Alexander disease.
m loaches (family Balitoridae and Gastromyzontidae) are thumb-sized fish that effortlessly exploit environments where flow rates are so high that potential competitors would be washed away. To cope with these extreme flow rates hill stream loaches have evolved adaptations to stick to the bottom, equivalent to the downforce generating wings and skirts of F1 racing cars, and scale architecture reminiscent of the drag-reducing riblets of Mako sharks. Hill stream loaches exhibit far more diverse flow-modifying morphological features than fast pelagic predators, suggesting as yet unknown drag reducing systems remain to be discovered. Here we describe the skeletal structure of Sewellia lineolata and Gastromyzon punctulatus and contrast that with other fish that face similar hydrodynamic challenges. We identify a major structural variation within Balitoridae pelvic sucker attachment positions which may explain fundamental constraints on the parallel development of different genera and which has not been described before. We also use high speed video capture, CT scans and Frustrated Total Internal Reflection to image and measure the sucker system in live operation and describe how it functions on a familiar activity for hill stream loaches (climbing waterfalls). We show how they can drag 3 to 4 times their own bodyweight up a vertical glass waterfall. Adaptations to high flow rates are the inspiration for this study, because there are many engineering applications where the ability to deal with high flow rates are important - either by reducing drag, or by generating the forces needed to hold an animal in place.
: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with complex heritability and higher prevalence in males. Since the neonatal epigenome has the potential to reflect past interactions between genetic and environmental factors during early development, we performed whole-genome bisulfite sequencing of 152 umbilical cord blood samples from the MARBLES and EARLI high-familial risk prospective cohorts to identify an epigenomic signature of ASD at birth. Results: We identified differentially-methylated regions (DMRs) stratified by sex that discriminated ASD from control cord blood samples in discovery and replication sets. At a region level, 7 DMRs in males and 31 DMRs in females replicated across two independent groups of subjects, while 537 DMR genes in males and 1762 DMR genes in females replicated by gene association. These DMR genes were significantly enriched for brain and embryonic expression, X chromosome location, and identification in prior epigenetic studies of ASD in post-mortem brain. In males and females, autosomal ASD DMRs were significantly enriched for promoter and bivalent chromatin states across most cell types, while sex differences were observed for X-linked ASD DMRs. Lastly, these DMRs identified in cord blood were significantly enriched for binding sites of methyl-sensitive transcription factors relevant to fetal brain development. Conclusions: At birth, prior to the diagnosis of ASD, a distinct DNA methylation signature was detected in cord blood over regulatory regions and genes relevant to early fetal neurodevelopment. Differential cord methylation in ASD supports the developmental and sex-biased etiology of ASD, and provides novel insights for early diagnosis and therapy.
mutations are responsible for several dilution phenotypes in horses, including cream, pearl, and sunshine. We sequenced the  SLC45A2  gene in a horse that possessed a diluted coat color but tested negative for any known dilution genotypes. We identified a novel homozygous missense mutation in  ECA21: SLC45A2:c.305G&amp;gt;A; p.(Arg102Gln)  which we have named snowdrop (C sno ). The snowdrop dilution is autosomal recessive and dilutes both red and black pigment in the homozygous state, creating a phenotype similar to homozygous cream. We also identified this mutation in the heterozygous state in several relatives, including the sire and dam of the affected horse, where it has no visible effect on phenotype. Based on these data, the snowdrop variant produces a recessive dilution similar to cream, and its discovery confirms that multiple  SLC45A2  alleles cause dilute phenotypes in horses.
rg culture (WBC, 3,500-2,800 BCE) dates to the Late Neolithic period, a time of important demographic and cultural transformations in western Europe. We perform a genome-wide analysis of 42 individuals who were interred in a WBC collective burial in Niedertiefenbach, Germany (3,300-3,200 cal. BCE). Our results highlight that the Niedertiefenbach population indeed emerged at the beginning of the WBC. This farming community was genetically heterogeneous and carried a surprisingly large hunter-gatherer ancestry component (40%). We detect considerable differences in the human leukocyte antigen gene pool between contemporary Europeans and the Niedertiefenbach individuals whose immune response was primarily geared towards defending viral infections.
bles reminiscence about past experiences and guides processing of future experiences. However, these two functions are inherently at odds: remembering specific past experiences requires storing idiosyncratic properties, but by definition such properties may not be shared with similar situations in the future and thus are not as useful for prediction. We discovered that, when faced with this conflict, the brain prioritizes prediction over encoding. Behavioral tasks showed that pictures allowing for prediction of what will appear next based on learned regularities are poorly encoded into memory. Brain imaging revealed that predictive representations in the hippocampus may be responsible for this worse episodic encoding and suggested that such interference may result from competition between hippocampal pathways. This tradeoff between statistical learning and episodic memory may be adaptive, focusing encoding on experiences for which we do not yet have a predictive model.
outh disease virus (FMDV), like many RNA viruses, infects hosts as a population of closely related viruses referred to as a quasispecies. The behavior of this quasispecies has not been described in detail over the full course of infection in a natural host species. In this study, virus samples taken from vaccinated and non-vaccinated cattle up to 35 days post experimental infection with FMDV A24-Cruzeiro were analyzed by deep-sequencing. Vaccination induced significant differences compared to viruses from non-vaccinated cattle. in virus substitution rates, entropy, and evidence for adaptation. Genomic variation detected during early infection was found to reflect the diversity inherited from the source virus (inoculum), whereas by 12 days post infection (dpi) dominant viruses were defined by newly acquired mutations. In most serially sampled cattle, mutations conferring recognized fitness gain occurred within numerous genetic backgrounds, often associated with selective sweeps. Persistent infections always included multiple FMDV subpopulations, suggesting independently maintained foci of infection within the nasopharyngeal mucosa. Although vaccination prevented disease, subclinical infection in this group was associated with very early bottlenecks which subsequently reduced the diversity within the virus population. This implies an added consequence of vaccination in the control of foot-and-mouth disease. Viruses sampled from both animal cohorts contained putative antigenic escape mutations. However, these mutations occurred during later stages of infection, at which time transmission between animals is less likely to occur.
ral infections disrupt B cell responses leading to impaired affinity maturation and delayed control of viremia. Previous studies have identified early pre-germinal center (GC) B cell attrition but the impact of chronic infections on B cell fate decisions in the GC remains poorly understood. To address this question, we used single-cell transcriptional profiling of virus-specific GC B cells to test the hypothesis that chronic viral infection disrupted GC B cell fate decisions leading to suboptimal humoral immunity. These studies revealed a critical GC differentiation checkpoint that is disrupted by chronic infection, specifically at the point of dark zone re-entry.  During chronic viral infection, virus-specific GC B cells were shunted towards terminal plasma cell (PC) or memory B cell (MBC) fates at the expense of continued participation in the GC. Early GC exit was associated with decreased B cell mutational burden and antibody quality. Persisting antigen and inflammation independently drove facets of dysregulation, with a key role for inflammation in directing premature terminal GC B cell differentiation and GC exit. Thus, these studies define GC defects during chronic viral infection and identify a critical GC checkpoint that is short-circuited, preventing optimal maturation of humoral immunity.
 3A (Sema3A) is a secreted protein that signals to cells through binding to neuropilin and plexin receptors and provides neurons with guidance cues key for axon pathfinding, and also controls cell migration in several other biological systems. Sema3A interacts with glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), an interaction that could localize the protein within tissues and involves the C-terminal domain of the protein. This domain comprises several furin cleavage sites that are processed during secretion and in previous works have hampered recombinant production of full-length wild type Sema3A, and the biochemical analysis of Sema3A interaction with GAGs. In this work, we have developed a strategy to purify the full-length protein in high yield and identified two sequences in the C-terminal domain, KRDRKQRRQR and KKGRNRR, which confer to the protein sub nM affinity for chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate polysaccharides. Using chemically defined oligosaccharides and solid phase binding assays, we report that Sema3A recognizes a (GlcA-GalNAc4S6S)2 motif but not a (GlcA2S-GalNAc6S)2 motif and is thus highly specific for type E chondroitin sulfate. Functionally, we found that Sema3A rigidified CS-E films that mimic the GAG presentation within extracellular matrices (ECMs), suggesting that Sema3A may have a previously unidentified function to cross-link and thus stabilize GAG-rich ECMs. Finally, we demonstrated that the full-length Sema3A is more potent at inhibiting neurite outgrowth than the truncated or mutant forms that were previously purified and that the GAG binding sites are required to achieve full activity. The results suggest that Sema3A can rigidify and cross-link GAG matrices, implicating Sema3A could function as an extracellular matrix organizer in addition to binding to and signaling through its cognate cell surface receptors.
 signature analysis is an essential part of the cancer genome analysis toolkit. Conventionally, mutational signature analysis extracts patterns of different mutation types across many cancer genomes. Here we present TensorSignatures, an algorithm to learn mutational signatures jointly across all variant categories and their genomic context. The analysis of 2,778 cancer genomes of the PCAWG consortium shows that practically all signatures operate dynamically in response to various genomic and epigenomic states. The analysis pins differential spectra of UV mutagenesis found in active and inactive chromatin to global genome nucleotide excision repair. TensorSignatures accurately characterises transcription-associated mutagenesis, which is detected in 7 different cancer types. The analysis also unmasks replication and double strand break repair driven APOBEC mutagenesis, which manifests with differential numbers and length of mutation clusters indicating a differential processivity of the two triggers. As a fourth example, TensorSignatures detects a signature of somatic hypermutation generating highly clustered variants around the transcription start sites of active genes in lymphoid leukaemia, distinct from a more general and less clustered signature of Pol-driven TLS found in a broad range of cancer types.
 nature use diverse strategies to evade or deter their predators, including many vivid behavioural displays only qualitatively described from field encounters with natural predators or humans. Within venomous snake mimicry, stereotyped anti-predator displays are suggested to be a critical component of the warning signal given by toxic models and thus under strong selection for independent convergence in mimetic species. However, no studies have systematically quantified variation in snake anti-predator displays across taxonomically broad clades to test how these behaviours evolve across species within a phylogenetic comparative methods framework. Here we describe a new, high-throughput approach for collecting and scoring snake anti-predator displays in the field that demonstrates both low observer bias and infinite extension across any species. Then, we show our method9s utility in quantitatively comparing the behaviour of 20 highly-divergent snake species from the Amazonian lowlands of Peru. We found that a simple experimental setup varying simulated predator cues was very successful in eliciting anti-predator displays across species and that high-speed videography captured a greater diversity of behavioural responses than described in the literature. We also found that although different display components evolve at different rates with complicated patterns of covariance, there is clear evidence of evolutionary convergence in anti-predator displays among distantly related elapid coral snakes and their colubrid mimics. We conclude that our approach provides new opportunity for analyses of snake behaviour, kinematics, and the evolution of anti-predator signals more generally, especially macroevolutionary analyses across clades with similarly intractable behavioural diversity.
ation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells ensure a continuous supply of mature blood cells. Recent models of differentiation are represented as a landscape, in which individual progenitors traverse a continuum of multipotent cell states before reaching an entry point that marks lineage commitment. Basophils and mast cells have received little attention in these models and their differentiation trajectories are yet to be explored. Here, we have performed multicolor flow cytometry and high-coverage single-cell RNA sequencing analyses to chart the differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors into basophils and mast cells in mouse. Analysis of flow cytometry data reconstructed a detailed map of the differentiation, including a bifurcation of progenitors into two specific trajectories. Molecular profiling and pseudotime ordering of the single cells revealed gene expression changes during differentiation, with temporally separated regulation of mast cell protease genes. We validate that basophil and mast cell signature genes increased along the trajectories into their respective lineage, and we demonstrate how genes critical for each respective lineage are upregulated during the formation of the mature cells. Cell fate assays showed that multicolor flow cytometry and transcriptional profiling successfully predict the bipotent phenotype of a previously uncharacterized population of basophil-mast cell progenitor-like cells in mouse peritoneum. Taken together, we provide a detailed roadmap of basophil and mast cell development through a combination of molecular and functional profiling.
c ossification (HO) is bone formation that occurs after trauma within tissues that do not normally have the property of ossification, resulting in pain and disability. The genetic architecture of HO remains unclear. In the first genome-wide association studies of this disease, we identify the human-only long non-coding RNA-encoding gene CASC20 as a robust, replicating susceptibility locus for HO and KIF26B as a potential severity locus. We find that both CASC20 and KIF26B are expressed in human bone. Both CASC20 and KIF26B expression is upregulated upon BMP2 induced osteogenic differentiation in primary human mesenchymal stem cells, followed by RUNX2 and OSTERIX upregulation and mineralised nodule formation. A CRISPR-Cas9 mediated knockout of Kif26b inhibits BMP2-induced Runx2, Sp7/Osterix, Col1A1, Alp, and Bglap/Osteocalcin expression in a murine myocyte model of osteogenic trans-differentiation, and prevents mineralised nodule formation. These studies provide the first insights into the heritable biology of common, complex HO.
Z are transcriptional regulators that powerfully stimulate cell proliferation, which drives developmental or tumorigenic tissue growth. Previously we showed that YAP/TAZ initiate and maintain Schwann cell (SC) differentiation, thereby forming and maintaining myelin sheath around peripheral axons (Grove et al., 2017). Here we show that YAP/TAZ are required for SCs to restore peripheral myelination after nerve injury. We find that YAP/TAZ dramatically disappear from denervated, proliferating SCs of adult mice after peripheral nerve injury. They reappear in SCs as axons regenerate. YAP/TAZ ablation does not impair SC proliferation or transdifferentiation into growth promoting repair SCs. SCs lacking YAP/TAZ, however, fail to upregulate myelin-associated genes and completely fail to remyelinate regenerated axons. We also show that both YAP and TAZ are required for optimal remyelination. These findings indicate that axons regulate transcriptional activity of YAP/TAZ in adult SCs and that YAP/TAZ are essential for functional regeneration of peripheral nerve.
y Photinus pyralis inhabits a wide range of latitudinal and ecological niches, with populations living from temperate to tropical habitats. Its ample geographic distribution makes this species an ideal system for the study of local adaptation and demographic inference of wild populations. Therefore, in this study we modelled and inferred different demographic scenarios for North American populations of P. pyralis, collected from Texas to New Jersey. To do this, we used a combination of ABC techniques (for multi-population/colonization analyses), and likelihood inference (dadi) for single-population demographic inference, which proved useful with our RAD data. We uncovered that the most ancestral North American population lays in Texas, which further colonized the Central region of the US and more recently the North Eastern coast. Our study confidently rejects a demographic scenario where the North Eastern populations colonized more southern populations until reaching Texas. Our results suggest that P. pyralis originated in Central- or South America, followed by migration events that populated northern latitudes. Finally, modelling the demographic history of North American P. pyralis serves as a null model of nucleotide diversity patterns, which will inform future studies of adaptation, not only in P. pyralis, but also in other North American taxa.
istory of major depressive disorder (MDD) increases the likelihood of a future depressive episode, which itself poses a significant risk for disruptions in reward processing and social cognition. However, it is unclear whether a family history of MDD is associated with alterations in the neural circuitry underlying reward processing and social cognition. To address this gap, we subdivided 279 participants from the Human Connectome Project into three groups: 71 with a lifetime history of MDD (Dep), 103 with a family history of MDD (Fam), and 105 healthy controls (HC). We found that Fam (relative to HCs) were associated with increased sadness scores, and Dep (relative to both Fam and HC) were associated with increased sadness and MDD symptoms. We then evaluated task-based fMRI data on a social cognition and reward processing task and found a region of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) that responded to both tasks, independent of group. To investigate whether the vmPFC shows alterations in functional connectivity between groups, we conducted psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analyses using the vmPFC as a seed region. These analyses revealed that Fam groups had increased vmPFC functional connectivity within the nucleus accumbens, left dorsolateral PFC and subregions of the cerebellum relative to HCs during the social cognition task. These findings suggest that aberrant neural mechanisms among those with a familial risk of MDD may underlie vulnerability to altered social cognition.
thway is shown for the first time indicating competitive inhibition of cortisol by prostaglandins at the critical ligand binding domain of glucocorticoid receptors. This is significant since these materials are widely distributed: glucocorticoid receptors, cortisol and prostaglandins are found in almost every cell and tissue in the human body. In this article, a cooperative relationship is shown between cortisol and prostaglandin results during normative homeostatic conditions, and thus indicates capability of localized control, which is instructive for understanding as well as diagnosis of deviations from optimal physiological function. Moreover, as glucocorticoid receptors are nominally driven through cortisol concentration, the hypothesis developed in this manuscript indicates that the introduction of exogenous sources of prostaglandins, as associated with bacterial infection for example, might trigger dysfunctional responses, including signs and symptoms of disease like fever. The results demonstrating this association of competitive inhibition of cortisol and prostaglandins include comparative molecular modeling analyzing hydrophobic, hydrogen bonding, electrostatic and topology considerations that indicate the similarity in chemical affinity of cortisol and prostaglandin in a preferred configuration at the site of the ligand binding domain of glucocorticoid receptors. The work is useful in understanding normative physiological function as well as for developing treatments during certain diseased states.
y of recurrent mutations has hampered efforts to understand the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma. Through analysis of RNA-sequenced neuroblastoma, we identified &amp;gt;900 primarily intrachromosomal fusion transcripts generated by genes in close proximity. Fusions were enriched in chromosomal regions gained or lost in neuroblastoma and included well-known neuroblastoma oncogenes. The majority of fusions contained canonical splicing sites and a subset exhibited increased sensitivity to spliceosome inhibition. As a proof-of-principle that a gene product with altered properties can be produced by these fusions, we characterized the ZNF451-BAG2 fusion which generates a truncated BAG2-protein capable of inhibiting retinoic acid-induced differentiation. Our findings elucidate a mechanism through which altered gene products, relevant for neuroblastoma pathogenesis and representing possible novel drug targets, can be generated.
ing how prion proteins refold from a cellular isoform (PrPC) to a disease-causing isoform (PrPSc) has been among the &quot;ultimate challenges&quot; in molecular biology, biophysics, pathology, and immunology. Conformational changes of prion proteins from PrPC to PrPSc involve the unfolding of a short -helix that overshadows the challenge. Considering the mechanisms of electrostatic attraction, thermal disturbance, hydrogen ion concentration, hydrophobic interaction, and the shielding effect of water molecules, this study reveals an electrostatic-interaction-based mechanism by means of which prion proteins refold in an aqueous environment. The electrostatic-interaction-induced protein unfolding mechanism causes a hydrophobic polypeptide segment to dangle out over the conglobate main body of the prion protein, thereby allowing the first triangular hydrophobic rung formation via hydrophobic interaction. A molecular model of PrPSc is proposed that allows the -solenoid with a triangular hydrophobic core.
ing the impact of microgravity on human cognitive performance is crucial to guarantee the safety and success of future long-term manned missions. The effects of weightlessness on key mental processes such as spatial abilities are in particular not fully characterized. In this study, we examine the influence of microgravity on perspective-taking, a type of mental operation especially relevant in the context of collaborative teamwork between &quot;free-floating&quot; astronauts. Twelve subjects performed a cooperative task in virtual-reality under both normal and short-term microgravity conditions during a parabolic flight. The task involved various degrees of mental transformations, and required subjects to perform actions instructed by a fellow astronaut aboard a virtual spacecraft. The experimental design allowed us to control for nuisance variables, training effects, and non-gravity related factors of parabolic flights. Overall, our results indicated that microgravity has a facilitatory effect on perspective-taking abilities. Notably, this facilitation was selective to conditions requiring subjects to rotate their perspective around their line of sight, i.e., for mental rotations in the frontal plane. Moreover, microgravity affected subjects differently depending on their visual field dependence, as determined via a classic rod-and-frame test. Specifically, improvement in performance was more pronounced in field-independent subjects. Together, these results shed light on a long standing debate about the impact of microgravity on egocentric mental imagery, and have direct operational consequences for future long-term missions.
 some images memorable while others are forgettable? The features of an image can be represented at multiple levels - from low-level visual properties to high-level meaning. Across two behavioral studies and a neuroimaging study, we addressed the question of how image memorability is influenced by different levels of the visual hierarchy. In a first behavioral study, we combined a convolutional neural network (CNN) with behavioral prospective assignment, by using one of four CNN layers to select the scene images that each of one hundred participants experience. We found that participants remembered more images when they were assigned to view stimuli that were identified as discriminable using low-level CNN layers, or identified as similar in high-level layers. A second study replicated the first experiment9s results using images from a single semantic category (houses), but found that similarity predicted memorability at a slightly less high-level that holds representations of objects, suggesting this level is more important for remembering images from the same category. Finally, we analyzed neural activity collected through functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans as independent participants viewed the same scene images. Pattern similarity analyses revealed an analogous relationship in the ventral stream between image discriminability/similarity and level of the visual hierarchy. Discriminability in early visual areas, and similarity later in the ventral stream, each predicted greater image memorability. Together, this research shows that discriminability at different visual levels can be used to predict image memorability through both CNN models and neural activity in the human ventral stream.
g proteome health is important for cell survival. Nucleic acids possess the ability to prevent aggregation up to 300-fold more efficiently than traditional chaperone proteins. In this study, we explore the sequence specificity of the chaperone activity of nucleic acids. Evaluating over 500 nucleic acid sequences effects on aggregation, we demonstrate that the holdase chaperone effect of nucleic acids is highly sequence dependent. Quadruplexes are found to have especially potent effects on aggregation with many different proteins via quadruplex:protein oligomerization. These observations contextualize recent reports of quadruplexes playing important roles in aggregation-related diseases, such as Fragile X and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Fur-regulated small RNA highly upregulated in Burkholderia cenocepacia under conditions of iron depletion. Its computationally predicted targets include iron containing enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle such as aconitase and succinate dehydrogenase, as well as iron-containing enzymes responsible for the oxidative stress response, such as superoxide dismutase and catalase. Phenotypic and gene expression analysis of BrrF deletion and overexpression mutants show that the regulation of these genes is BrrF-dependent. Expression of acnA, fumA, sdhA and sdhC was downregulated during iron depletion in the wild type strain, but not in a BrrF deletion mutant. TCA cycle genes not predicted as target for BrrF were not affected in the same manner by iron depletion. Likewise, expression of sodB and katB was dowregulated during iron depletion in the wild type strain, but not in a BrrF deletion mutant. BrrF overexpression reduced aconitase and superoxide dismutase activities and increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. All phenotypes and gene expression changes of the BrrF deletion mutant could be complemented by overexpressing BrrF in trans. Overall, BrrF acts as a regulator of central metabolism and oxidative stress response, possibly as an iron-sparing measure to maintain iron homeostasis under conditions of iron starvation.
ptin (Kp) system is a central modulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis in vertebrates. Its existence outside the vertebrate lineage remains largely unknown. Here we report the identification and characterization of Kp system in the sea cucumber  Apostichopus japonicus . The gene encoding the Kp precursor, generates two mature neuropeptides, AjKiss1a and AjKiss1b. The Kp receptors, AjKissR1 and AjKissR2, are strongly activated by synthetic  A. japonicus  and vertebrate Kps, triggering a rapid intracellular mobilization of Ca 2+ , followed by receptor internalization. AjKissR1 and AjKissR2 share similar intracellular signaling pathways via G q /PLC/PKC/MAPK cascade, when activated by C-terminal decapeptide (AjKiss1b-10). The  A. japonicus  Kp system functions in mutiple tissues which are closely related to reproduction and metabolism. Overall, our findings uncover for the first time, to our knowledge, the existence and functions of the Kp system in a non-chordate species and provide new evidence to support the ancient origin of the hypothalamic neurosecretory system.
occurring fluorescence has been observed in multiple species ranging from bacteria to birds. In macroscopic animals such as birds and fishes, fluorescence provides a visual communication signal. However, the functional significance of this phenomenon is not known in most cases. Though photoprotection is attributed to fluorescence under ultraviolet (UV) light in some organisms, it lacks direct experimental evidence. Here, we have identified a new species of eutardigrade belonging to the genus  Paramacrobiotus , which exhibits fluorescence under UV light. Using a natural variant of the same species that lacks fluorescence, we show that the fluorescence confers tolerance to lethal UV radiation. Remarkably, we could transfer this property to UV-sensitive  Hypsibius exemplaris , another eutardigrade, and also to  C. elegans , a nematode. Using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) we isolated the fluorescent compound from  Paramacrobiotus  sp. This compound has excitation maxima (ex) at 370 nm and emission maxima (em) at 420-430 nm. We propose that  Paramacrobiotus  sp. uses a fluorescent shield that absorbs harmful UV radiation, and emits harmless blue light, thereby protecting itself from the lethal effects of UV radiation.
resistant (MDR) bacteria pose a grave concern to global health. This problem is further aggravated by a lack of new and effective antibiotics and countermeasure platforms that can sustain the creation of novel antimicrobials in the wake of new outbreaks or evolution of resistance to antibiotics. To address this, we have developed a Facile Accelerated Specific Therapeutic (FAST) platform that can develop effective therapies against MDR bacteria within a week. Our FAST platform combines four essential modules- design, build, test, and delivery- of drug development cycle. The design module comprises a bioinformatics toolbox that predicts sequence-specific peptide nucleic acids (PNAs) that target non-traditional pathways and genes of bacteria in minutes. The build module constitutes in-situ synthesis and validation of selected PNAs in less than four days and efficacy testing within a day. As a proof of concept, these PNAs were tested against MDR clinical isolates. Here we tested Enterobacteriaceae including carbapenem-resistant Escherichia coli, extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) Klebsiella pneumoniae, New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase-1 carrying Klebsiella pneumoniae and MDR Salmonella enterica. PNAs showed significant growth inhibition for 82% of treatments, with nearly 18% of the treatments leading to more than 97% decrease. Further, these PNAs are capable of potentiating antibiotic activity in the clinical isolates despite presence of cognate resistance genes. Finally, FAST offers a novel delivery approach to overcome limited transport of PNAs into mammalian cells to clear intracellular infections. This method relies on repurposing the bacterial Type III secretion system in conjunction with a kill switch that is effective at eliminating 99.6% of an intracellular Salmonella infection in human epithelial cells. Our findings demonstrate the potential of the FAST platform in treating MDR bacteria in a rapid and effective manner.
r efforts in social interactions are dedicated to learning about others. Adolescents with autism have core deficits in social learning, but a mechanistic understanding of these deficits and how they relate to neural development is lacking. The current study aimed to specify how adolescents with and with autism represent and acquire social knowledge and how these processes are implemented in neural activity. Typically developing (TD) adolescents (N=26) and adolescents with autism (N=20) rated in the MR scanner how much three peers liked a variety of items and received trial-by-trial feedback about the peer9s actual preference ratings. In a separate study, we established the preferences of a new sample of adolescents (N=99), used to examine population preference structures. Using computational models, we tested whether participants in the MR study relied on preference structures during learning and how model predictions were implemented in brain activity. TD adolescents relied on average population preferences and prediction error (PE) updating. Importantly, PE updating was scaled by the similarity between items. In contrast, preferences of adolescents with autism were best described by a No-learning model that relied only on participants own preferences for each item. Model predictions were encoded in neural activity. TD adolescents encoded PEs in the putamen and adolescents with autism showed greater encoding of own preferences in the angular gyrus. We specified how adolescents represent and update social knowledge during learning. Our findings indicate that adolescents with ASD rely only on their own preferences when making social inferences.
body of evidence suggests that certain phenotypic traits of epigenetic origin can be passed across generations via both the male and female germlines of mammals. These observations have been difficult to explain owing to a global loss of the majority of known epigenetic marks present in parental chromosomes during primordial germ cell development and after fertilization. By integrating previously published BS-seq, DNase-seq, ATAC-seq, and RNA-seq data collected during multiple stages of primordial germ cell and preimplantation development, we find that the methylation status of the majority of CpGs genome-wide is restored after global reprogramming, despite the fact that global CpG methylation drops to 10% in primordial germ cells and 20% in the inner cell mass of the blastocyst. We estimate the proportion of such CpGs with preserved methylation status to be 78%. Further, we find that CpGs at sites bound by transcription factors during the global re-methylation phases of germ line and embryonic development remain hypomethylated across all developmental stages observed. On the other hand, CpGs at sites not bound by transcription factors during the global re-methylation phase have high methylation levels prior to global de-methylation, become de-methylated during global de-methylation, and then become re-methylated. The results suggest that transcription factors can act as carriers of epigenetic information during germ cell and pre-implantation development by ensuring that the methylation status of CpGs is maintained after reprogramming of DNA methylation. Based on our findings, we propose a model in which transcription factor binding during the re-methylation phases of primordial germ cell and pre-implantation development allow epigenetic information to be maintained trans-generationally even at sites where DNA methylation is lost during global de-methylation.
r is a key water resource, with 45.7% of all drinking water globally being extracted from groundwater. Maintaining good groundwater quality is thus crucial to secure drinking water. Micropollutants, such as pesticides, threaten groundwater quality which can be mitigated by biodegradation. Hence, exploring microbial communities in aquifers used for drinking water production is essential for understanding micropollutants biodegradation capacity. This study aimed at understanding the interaction between groundwater geochemistry, pesticide presence, and microbial communities in aquifers used for drinking water production. Two groundwater monitoring wells located in the northeast of The Netherlands and at 500 m distance from each other were sampled in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2018. In both wells, water was extracted from five discrete depths ranging from 13 to 54 m and used to analyze geochemical parameters, pesticide concentrations and microbial community dynamics using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and qPCR. Groundwater geochemistry was stable throughout the study period and pesticides were heterogeneously distributed at low concentrations (g/L range). Integration of the groundwater chemical and microbial data showed that geochemical parameters and pesticides exerted selective pressure on microbial communities. Furthermore, microbial communities in both wells showed a more similar composition in the deeper part of the aquifer as compared to shallow sections, suggesting vertical differences in hydrological connection. This study provides initial insights into microbial community composition and distribution in groundwater systems in relation to geochemical parameters. This information can contribute for the implementation of bioremediation technologies that guarantee safe drinking water production from clean aquifers.
methionine (SAM) is one of the most important enzyme substrates. It is vital for the function of various proteins, including large group of methyltransferases (MT). Intriguingly, some bacterial and eukaryotic MTs, while catalysing the same reaction, possess significantly different topologies, with the former being a knotted one. Here, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of SAM conformational space and factors that affect its vastness. We investigated SAM in two forms: free in water (via NMR studies and explicit solvent simulations) and bound to proteins (based on all data available in the PDB). We identified structural descriptors -- angles which show the major differences in SAM conformation between unknotted and knotted methyltransferases. Moreover, we report that this is caused mainly by a characteristic for knotted MTs tight binding site formed by the knot and the presence of adenine-binding loop. Additionally, we elucidate conformational restrictions imposed on SAM molecules by other protein groups in comparison to conformational space in water.
ering of microbes spurs biotechnological innovations, but requires control mechanisms to confine growth within defined environments for translation. Here we engineer bacterial growth tropism to sense and grow in response to specified oxygen, pH, and lactate signatures. Coupling biosensors to drive essential gene expression reveals engineered bacterial localization within upper or lower gastrointestinal tract. Multiplexing biosensors in an AND logic-gate architecture reduced bacterial off-target colonization in vivo.
sing (QS) is a mechanism of cell-to-cell communication via diffusible signal molecules that controls multiple secreted factors including virulence factors in bacterial pathogens. While the standard view is that QS functions as a density-sensing mechanism, the functional and evolutionary context of QS continues to be disputed. A critical step in assessing the various adaptive hypotheses is establishing the functional capacities and limits of QS. Current functional studies largely focus on a dichotomy of QS on/off (or, quorate / sub-quorate) states, despite the increasing amount of heterogeneity on a cellular scale, overlooking the potential for intermediate, graded responses. In this paper we explore the functional capacity of QS to resolve finely graded environmental densities and introduce the use of reaction norms as a way to holistically characterize QS response. Here we show that  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  can deliver a graded response to variation in environmental population density on both the population and individual scales. We further resolve the linear population response to be the product of two component cellular reaction norms: the likelihood of being responsive and the intensity of response. Overall, this work reveals that there is no critical cell mass or 9quorum9, at which QS is activated on either the individual cell or population scale.
ng evidence indicates that the human9s proprioception map appears subject-specific. However, whether the idiosyncratic pattern persists across time with good within-subject consistency has not been quantitatively examined. Here we measured the proprioception by a hand visual-matching task in multiple sessions over two days. We found that people improved their proprioception when tested repetitively without performance feedback. Importantly, despite the reduction of average error, the spatial pattern of proprioception errors remained idiosyncratic. Based on individuals9 proprioceptive performance, a standard convolutional neural network classifier could identify people with good accuracy. We also found that subjects9 baseline proprioceptive performance could not predict their motor performance in a visual trajectory-matching task even though both tasks require accurate mapping of hand position to visual targets in the same workspace. Using a separate experiment, we not only replicated these findings but also ruled out the possibility that performance feedback during a few familiarization trials caused the observed improvement in proprioception. We conclude that the conventional proprioception test itself, even without feedback, can improve proprioception but leave the idiosyncrasy of proprioception unchanged.
ents with Intensive care unit-acquired weakness (ICUAW), skeletal muscle strength often decreases significantly. This study aimed to explore the effects of testosterone propionate on skeletal muscle using rat model of sepsis. Male SD rats were randomly divided into experimental group, model control group, sham operation group and blank control group. Rats in experimental group were given testosterone propionate 2 times a week, 10 mg/kg for 3 weeks. Maximal contraction force, fatigue index and cross-sectional area of the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) were measured. Myosin, IGF-1, p-AKT and p-mTOR levels in EDL were detected by Western blot. Histological changes of the testis and prostate were detected by hematoxylin and eosin staining. We found that maximal contraction force and fatigue index of EDL in experimental group were significantly higher than in model control group. Cross sectional area of fast MHC muscle fiber of EDL in group was significantly higher than in model control group. The levels of myosin, IGF-1, p-AKT and p-mTOR of EDL in experimental group were significantly higher than in model control group. In addition, no testicle atrophy and prostate hyperplasia was detected in experimental group. In conclusion, these results suggest that testosterone propionate can significantly improve skeletal muscle strength, endurance and volume of septic rats, and the mechanism may be related to the activation of IGF-1/AKT pathway. Moreover, testosterone propionate with short duration does not cause testicular atrophy and prostate hyperplasia in septic rats. Therefore, testosterone propionate is a potential treatment for muscle malfunction in ICUAW patients.
s accumulating that evolutionary changes are not only common during biological invasions but may also contribute directly to invasion success. The genomic basis of such changes is still largely unexplored. Yet, understanding the genomic response to invasion may help to predict the conditions under which invasiveness can be enhanced or suppressed. Here we characterized the genome response of the spotted wing drosophila Drosophila suzukii during the worldwide invasion of this pest insect species, by conducting a genome-wide association study to identify genes involved in adaptive processes during invasion. Genomic data from 22 population samples were analyzed to detect genetic variants associated with the status (invasive versus native) of the sampled populations based on a newly developed statistic, we called C2 , that contrasts allele frequencies corrected for population structure. This new statistical framework has been implemented in an upgraded version of the program BayPass. We identified a relatively small set of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that show a highly significant association with the invasive status of populations. In particular, two genes RhoGEF64C and cpo, the latter contributing to natural variation in several life-history traits (including diapause) in Drosophila melanogaster, contained SNPs significantly associated with the invasive status in the two separate main invasion routes of D. suzukii . Our methodological approaches can be applied to any other invasive species, and more generally to any evolutionary model for species characterized by non-equilibrium demographic conditions for which binary covariables of interest can be defined at the population level.
fferent mechanisms are implicated in the resistance of lung cancer cells to epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs), and only few have been functionally investigated. Here, using genetically knocked out EGFR and TKI-resistant lung cancer cells, we show that loss of wild-type EGFR attenuates cell proliferation, migration and 3D-spherid formation, whereas loss of mutant EGFR or resistance to TKIs reinforces those processes. Consistently, disruption of wild-type EGFR leads to suppression of HER2/HER3, while mutant EGFR ablation or resistance to TKIs increases HER2/HER3 expression, compensating for EGFR loss. Furthermore, HER2/HER3 nuclear translocation mediates overexpression of cyclin D1, leading to tumor cell survival and drug resistance. Cyclin D1/CDK4/6 inhibition resensitizes erlotinib-resistant (ER) cells to erlotinib. Analysis of cyclin D1 expression in patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) showed that its expression is negatively associated with overall survival and disease-free survival. Our results provide biological and mechanistic insights into targeting EGFR and TKI resistance.
management of populations of interacting biological species routinely requires interventions combining multiple treatments or therapies. This is important in key research areas such as ecology, epidemiology, wound healing and oncology. Despite the well developed theory and techniques for determining single optimal controls, there is limited practical guidance supporting implementation of combination therapies. In this work we use optimal control theory to calculate optimal strategies for applying combination therapies to a model of acute myeloid leukaemia. We consider various combinations of continuous and bang-bang (discrete) controls, and we investigate how the control dynamics interact and respond to changes in the weighting and form of the pay-off characterising optimality. We demonstrate that the optimal controls respond non-linearly to treatment strength and control parameters, due to the interactions between species. We discuss challenges in appropriately characterising optimality in a multiple control setting and provide practical guidance for applying multiple optimal controls. Code used in this work to implement multiple optimal controls is available on GitHub.
tral nervous system (CNS), axons and its surrounding myelin sheaths, generated by oligodendrocytes, greatly depend on each other, where oligodendrocytes provide axons with both trophic and metabolic support. Across spices, assessment of the axon-myelin ultrastructure is the key-approach to visualize de- and re-myelination of axons. However, this assessment omits to provide information on axonal homeostasis or how axon-myelin influence one another. Since mitochondria may adjust in size thus mirroring the intracellular physiological and metabolic status we applied this to myelinated axons in the CNS. We herein show that a large axonal mitochondria diameter correlates with thinner surrounding myelin sheaths across different CNS tracts and species, including human. We also show that the relation between axonal mitochondria diameter and surrounding myelin thickness is a valuable measurement to verify advanced remyelination in two commonly used experimental demyelinating models, namely the cuprizone and the lysolecithin (LPC) model. Lastly, we show that axonal mitochondria adjust in diameter in response to the thickness of the axonal surrounding myelin whereas the opposite adaption was absent. In summary, the link between axonal mitochondria diameter and surrounding myelin thickness provide insight on the axon-myelin relation both during homeostasis and pathological conditions. This link is also translational applicable and can thus contribute to a better understanding on how to study remyelination using experimental models.
lar vesicles (EVs) are important means of intercellular communication and a potent tool for regenerative therapy. In ischemic stroke, transient blockage of a brain artery leads to a lack of glucose and oxygen in the affected brain tissue, provoking neuronal death by necrosis in the core of the ischemic region. The fate of neurons in the surrounding penumbra depends on the stimuli, including EVs, received during the following hours. A detailed characterization of such stimuli is crucial not only for understanding stroke pathophysiology but also for new therapeutic interventions. In the present study, we characterize the EVs in mouse brain under physiological conditions and 24h after induction of transient ischemia in mice. We show that, in steady-state conditions, microglia are the main source of small EVs (sEVs) whereas after ischemia, the main EV population originates from astrocytes. Moreover, sEVs presented high amounts of the prion protein (PrP) which were increased after stroke. Conspicuously, sEVs were particularly enriched in a truncated PrP fragment (PrP-C1). Because of similarities between PrP-C1 and certain viral surface proteins, we studied the cellular uptake of brain-derived sEVs from mice lacking (PrP-KO) or containing PrP (WT). We show that PrP-KO-EVs are rapidly taken up by neurons and colocalize with lysosomes. Although eventually WT-EVs are also found in lysosomes, the amount taken up by neurons is significantly higher for PrP-KO-EVs. Likewise, microglia and astrocytes were also engulfing PrP-KO-sEVs more efficiently than WT-sEVs. Our results provide information on the relative contribution of brain cell types to the sEV pool in mice and indicate that increased release of sEVs by astrocytes together with elevated levels of PrP in sEVs may play a role in intercellular communication at early stages after stroke. In addition, amounts of PrP (and probably PrP-C1) in brain sEVs seem to contribute to their cellular uptake.
s aeruginosa grows in extracellular DNA-enriched biofilms and infection sites. Extracellular DNA (eDNA) is generally considered a structural biofilm polymer required for aggregation and biofilm maturation. In addition, eDNA can sequester divalent metal cations, acidify the growth media, and serve as a nutrient source. Here we determine the transcriptome of planktonic P. aeruginosa grown in the presence of eDNA using RNA-seq. Transcriptome analysis identified 89 induced genes and 76 repressed genes in the presence of eDNA (FDR&amp;lt;0.05), and transcriptional lux fusions were used to confirm eDNA regulation. A large number of eDNA-induced genes appear to be involved in utilizing DNA as a nutrient. Several eDNA-induced genes are also induced by acidic pH 5.5, and growth in the presence of eDNA or acidic pH promoted an acid tolerance response in P. aeruginosa. The cyoABCDE terminal oxidase is induced at pH 5.5 and contributed to the acid tolerance phenotype. Quantitative metal analysis confirmed that DNA binds to diverse metals, which helps explain why many genes involved in a general uptake of metals were controlled by eDNA. Growth in the presence of eDNA also promoted intracellular bacterial survival and influenced virulence and during the acute infection model of fruit flies. The diverse functions of the eDNA-regulated genes underscore the important role of this extracellular polymer in promoting antibiotic resistance, virulence, acid tolerance, and nutrient utilization; phenotypes that contribute to long-term survival.
s comparing native to introduced populations or distinct introduced populations to each other show that phenotypic evolution is common and often involves a suit of interacting phenotypic traits. We define such sets of traits that evolve in concert and contribute to the success of invasive populations as an &quot;invasion syndrome&quot;. The invasive Harlequin ladybug Harmonia axyridis displays such an invasion syndrome with, for instance, females from invasive populations being larger and heavier than individuals from native populations, allocating more resources to reproduction, and spreading reproduction over a longer lifespan. Invasion syndromes could emerge due to selection acting jointly and directly on a multitude of traits, or due to selection on one or a few key traits that drive correlated indirect responses in other traits. Here, we investigated the degree to which the H. axyridis invasion syndrome would emerge in response to artificial selection on either female body mass or on age at first reproduction, two traits involved in their invasion syndrome. To further explore the interaction between environmental context and evolutionary change in molding the phenotypic response, we phenotyped the individuals from the selection experiments in two environments, one with abundant food resources and one with limited resources. Our two artificial selection experiments show that the number of traits showing a correlated response is highly variable, and dependent upon the trait undergoing direct selection. Artificial selection on female body mass resulted in few correlated responses and hence poorly reproduced the invasion syndrome. In contrast, artificial selection on age at first reproduction resulted in more widespread phenotypic changes, which nevertheless corresponded only partly to the invasion syndrome. The artificial selection experiments also revealed a large impact of diet conditions on the evolved shifts observed in measured traits with impacts dependent on the trait considered and the selection regime. Overall, our results reveal that direct selection on multiple traits was likely necessary in the evolution of the H. axyridis invasion syndrome. Furthermore, they show the strength of using artificial selection to identify the traits that are correlated in different selective contexts, which represents a crucial first step in understanding the evolution of complex phenotypic patterns, including invasion syndromes.
oud requires mapping an orthographic form to a phonological one. The mapping process relies on sub-lexical statistical regularities (e.g., oo to u) or on learned lexical associations between a specific visual form and a series of sounds (e.g., yacht to jat). Computational, neuroimaging, and neuropsychological evidence suggest that sub-lexical and lexical processes rely on partially distinct neural substrates: a dorsal (occipito-parietal) and a ventral (occipito-temporal) route, respectively. Here, we investigated the spatiotemporal features of sub-lexical processes capitalizing the time resolution of magnetoencephalography and the unique clinical model offered by patients with semantic variant of Primary Progressive Aphasia (svPPA). Behaviorally, svPPA patients manifest marked lexico-semantic impairments including difficulties in reading words with exceptional orthographic to phonological correspondance (irregular words). Moreover, they present with focal neurodegeneration in the anterior temporal lobe (ATL), affecting primarily the ventral, occipito-temporal, lexical route. Therefore, this clinical population allows for testing of specific hypotheses on the neural implementation of the dual-route model for reading, such as whether damage to one route can be compensated by over-reliance on the other. To this end, we reconstructed and analyzed time-resolved whole-brain activity in 12 svPPA patients and 12 healthy age-matched controls while reading irregular words (e.g., yacht) and pseudowords (e.g., pook). Consistent with previous findings that the dorsal route is involved in sub-lexical processes, in control participants we observed enhanced neural activity over dorsal occipito-parietal cortices for pseudowords, when compared to irregular words. This activation was manifested in the beta-band (13-20 Hz), ramping up slowly over 500 ms after stimulus onset and peaking at ~800 ms, around response selection and production. This temporal pattern of neural activity was not observed in svPPA patients. Furthermore, a direct comparison of neural activity between patients and controls revealed a dorsal spatiotemporal cluster during irregular word reading. These findings suggest that the sub-lexical route is involved in processing both irregular and pseudo- words in svPPA. Together these results provide further evidence supporting a dual-route model for reading aloud - mediated by the interplay between lexical (ventral) and sub-lexical (dorsal) neuro-cognitive systems. When the lexical route is damaged, as in the case of neurodegeneration affecting the ATL, partial compensation appears to be possible by over-recruitment of the slower, serial attention-dependent, sub-lexical one.
n and loss of natural habitat is the major driver of the current global biodiversity crisis. Most habitat conservation efforts to date have targeted small areas of highly threatened habitat, but emerging debate suggests retaining large intact natural systems may be just as important. We reconcile these perspectives by integrating fine-resolution global data on habitat condition and species assemblage turnover, to identify Earth9s high-value biodiversity habitat. These are areas in better condition than most other locations once supporting a similar assemblage of species, and are found within both intact regions and human dominated landscapes. However, only 18.6 % of this high-value habitat is currently protected globally. Averting permanent biodiversity loss requires clear spatially explicit targets for retaining these unprotected high-value habitats.
le-stranded DNA recombineering is a powerful strategy for higher-scale genome editing, its application to species other than enterobacteria is typically limited by the efficiency of the recombinase and the action of native mismatch repair (MMR) systems. By building on [i] availability of the Erf-like single-stranded DNA-annealing protein Rec2, [ii] adoption of tightly-regulated thermoinducible device and [iii] transient expression of a MMR-supressing mutL allele, we have set up a coherent genetic platform for entering multiple changes in the chromosome of Pseudomononas putida with an unprecedented efficacy and reliability. The key genetic construct to this end is a broad host range plasmid encoding co-transcription of rec2 and P. putida9s mutLE36KPP at high levels under the control of the PL/cI857 system. Cycles of short thermal shifts of P. putida cells followed by transformation with a suite of mutagenic oligos delivered different types of high-fidelity genomic changes at frequencies up to 10% per single change that can be handled without selection. The same approach was instrumental to super-diversify short chromosomal portions for creating libraries of functional genomic segments as shown in this case with ribosomal binding sites. These results enable the multiplexing of genome engineering of P. putida, as required for metabolic engineering of this important biotechnological chassis.
 of the severity of Fusarium wilt disease in cowpea and other crops relies mainly on visual rating scales which are prone to errors, which can compromise the reproducibility of the data. Furthermore, the rating scales require considerable practical training and routine experience for reliable assessment. Two objective metrics, stem vascular discoloration length (%VDL) and number of Fusarium necrotic vessels (NFNV), for quantitative measurement of vascular damage incited by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. tracheiphilum race 4 (Fot4) of cowpea, were compared and their utility as a measure of disease severity and potential usefulness in other crop pathosystems is proposed. The metrics were tested in seven F2 populations and one F2:3 population, segregating for wilt response, and inoculated with race Fot4 at the seedling stage. %VDL and NFNV were highly correlated with plant wilting for all populations (r = 0.51 to 0.93 and 0.52 to 0.94, respectively). Furthermore, the relationships between the variables were linear in all populations (R2 = 0.81 to 0.87 and 0.71 to 0.91), indicating that they can provide accurate and reliable measurement of severity of Fusarium wilt disease. Also, %VDL and NFNV were strongly correlated (r = 0.88 to 0.97) and demonstrated a linear relationship (R2 = 0.69 to 0.94). Analysis of goodness-of-fit in two F2 populations revealed that errors in measurement of vascular discoloration length can result in  higher segregation distortion when compared to enumeration of necrotic vessels. However, both metrics were highly effective in accounting for the severity of vascular damage caused by Fusarium wilt disease.
fully navigate our social world, we keep track of other individuals9 relations to ourselves and to each other. But how does the brain encode this information? To answer this question, we mined participants9 social media (Facebook TM ) profiles to objectively characterize the relations between individuals in their real-life social networks. Under fMRI, participants answered questions on each of these individuals. Using representational similarity analysis, we identified social network structure coding in the default-mode network (medial prefrontal, medial parietal and lateral parietal cortices). When regressing out subjective factors (ratings of personal affiliation, appearance and personality), social network structure information was uniquely found in the retrosplenial complex, a region implicated in spatial processing. In contrast, information on individuals9 personality traits and affiliation to the subjects was found in the medial prefrontal and parietal cortices, respectively. These findings demonstrate a cortical division between representation of structural, trait-based and self-referenced social knowledge.
 all eukaryotes besides fungi, animals, and plants - represent a major part of the taxonomic and functional diversity of eukaryotic life on the planet and drive many ecosystem processes. However, knowledge of protist communities and their diversity lags behind that of most other groups of organisms, largely due to methodological constraints.  While protist communities differ markedly between habitats and biomes, they can be studied in very similar ways. Here we provide a guide to current molecular approaches used for studying protist diversity, with a particular focus on amplicon-based high-throughput sequencing (metabarcoding). We highlight that the choice of suitable primers artificially alters community profiles observed in metabarcoding studies. While there are no true &quot;universal&quot; primers to target all protist taxa as a whole, we identify some primer combinations with a wide taxonomic coverage and provide detailed information on their properties. Although environmental protistan ecological research will probably shift towards PCR-free metagenomics or/and transcriptomic approaches in a near future, metabarcoding will remain the method of choice for in-depth community analyses and taxon inventories in biodiversity surveys and ecological studies, due its great cost-efficiency, sensitivity, and throughput. In this paper we provide a guide for scientists from a broad range of disciplines to implement protists in their ecological analyses.
interactions are essential for group-living animals and are regulated by tactile cues shared among the group members. Neurobiological mechanisms through which social touch influences prosociality and related affective behaviors are relatively unknown. Using the evolutionarily ancient mother-young dyad as a model, we hypothesized that neurobehavioral consequences of social touch involves an interaction between central oxytocin (released during social touch) and serotonin (regulating affect and neuroplasticity). New mother rats showed upregulation of numerous aspects of the oxytocin system in the midbrain dorsal raphe (DR; source of forebrain serotonin) compared to non-maternal females. Preventing this upregulation by OTR knockdown in the maternal DR elicited infanticide, reduced nursing, increased aggression, and decreased active coping behavior. OTR knockdown also decreased serotonin-immunoreactive fibers, and increased neuroplasticity-restricting perineuronal nets, in the primary somatosensory cortex. Thus, oxytocin signaling in the DR regulates mechanisms involved in serotonin-induced cortical plasticity, which refines the tactile processing underlying prosocial behaviors.
terial cell division, synthesis of new septal peptidoglycan (sPG) is crucial for successful cytokinesis and cell pole morphogenesis. FtsW, a SEDS (Shape, Elongation, Division and Sporulation) family protein and an indispensable component of the cell division machinery in all walled bacterial species, was recently identified in vitro as a new monofunctional peptidoglycan glycosyltransferases (PGTase). FtsW and its cognate monofunctional transpeptidase (TPase) class b penicillin binding protein (PBP3 or FtsI in E. coli) may constitute the essential, bifunctional sPG synthase specific for new sPG synthesis. Despite its importance, the septal PGTase activity of FtsW has not been documented in vivo. How its activity is spatiotemporally regulated in vivo has also remained unknown. Here we investigated the septal PGTase activity and dynamics of FtsW in E. coli cells using a combination of single-molecule imaging and genetic manipulations. We showed that FtsW exhibited robust activity to incorporate an N-acetylmuramic acid analog at septa in the absence of other known PGTases, confirming FtsW as the essential septum-specific PGTase in vivo. Furthermore, we identified two populations of processively moving FtsW molecules at septa. A fast-moving population is driven by the treadmilling dynamics of FtsZ and independent of sPG synthesis. A slow-moving population is driven by active sPG synthesis and independent of FtsZ treadmilling dynamics. We further identified that FtsN, a potential sPG synthesis activator, plays an important role in promoting the slow-moving, sPG synthesis-dependent population. Our results support a two-track model, in which inactive sPG synthase molecules follow the fast treadmilling 9Z-track9 to be distributed along the septum; FtsN promotes their release from the 9Z-track9 to become active in sPG synthesis on the slow 9sPG-track9. This model integrates spatial information into the regulation of sPG synthesis activity and could serve as a mechanism for the spatiotemporal coordination of bacterial cell wall constriction.
tal changes can cause strong cascading effects in species communities due to altered biological interactions between species (Zarnetske et al., 2012). Highly specialized interactions arising from the co-evolution of hosts and parasites, such as bacteria and phages, and short generation times of these species could rapidly lead to considerable evolutionary changes in their biotic interactions (Kerr, 2012; Buck and Ripple, 2017), with potential large-scale ramifications to other trophic levels. Here we report experimental evidence of cascading environmental effects across trophic levels in an experimental system where phage-bacteria coevolution in an abiotically altered environment cascaded on bacterial virulence in an insect host. We found that the lytic cycle of the temperate phage KPS20 induced at low temperatures led to selection in the bacterial host  Serratia marcescens  that tempered the likelihood of triggering the phage9s lytic cycle. These  changes in  S. marcescens  concomitantly  attenuated its virulence in an insect host,  Galleria mellonella . In addition, our data suggests that this effect is mediated by mutations and epigenetic modifications of bacterial genes moderating the onset of the temperate phage9s lytic cycle. Given the abundance of temperate phages in bacterial genomes (Canchaya et al., 2003), the sensitivity of the onset of their lytic cycle to environmental conditions (Howard-Varona et al., 2017), and the predominance of environmental change due to climate change, our results warrants attention as a cautionary example of the dangers of predicting environmental effects on species without considering complex biotic interactions.
ange is altering the structure and functioning of communities. Trait-based approaches are powerful predictive tools that allow consideration of changes in structure and functioning simultaneously. The realized biomass-weighted trait distribution of a community rests on the ecophysiology of individuals, but integrates local species interactions and spatial dynamics that feedback to ecosystem functioning. Consider a response trait that determines species performance (e.g. growth rate) as a function of an environmental variable (e.g. temperature). The change in this response trait9s distribution following directional environmental change integrates all factors contributing to the community9s response and directly reflects the community9s response capacity. Here we introduce the average regional community trait-lag (TLMC) as a novel measure of whole-metacommunity response to warming. We show that functional compensation (shifts in resident species relative abundances) confers initial response capacity to communities by reducing and delaying the initial development of a trait-lag. Metacommunity adaptive capacity in the long-term, however, was dependent on dispersal and species tracking of their climate niche by incremental traversal of the landscape. With increasing inter-patch distances, network properties of the functional connectivity network became increasingly more important, and may guide prioritisation of habitat for conservation.
y to reconstruct genomes from metagenomic datasets has rapidly evolved over the past decade, leading to publications presenting 1,000s, and even more than 100,000 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from 1,000s of samples. While this wealth of genomic data is critical to expand our understanding of microbial diversity, evolution, and ecology, various issues have been observed in some of these datasets that risk obfuscating scientific inquiry. In this perspective we focus on the issue of identical or highly similar genomes assembled from independent datasets. While obtaining multiple genomic representatives for a species is highly valuable, multiple copies of the same or highly similar genomes complicates downstream analysis. We analyzed data from recent studies to show the levels of redundancy within these datasets, the highly variable performance of commonly used dereplication tools, and to point to existing approaches to account and leverage repeated sampling of the same/similar populations.
vel is the ability to imagine oneself in different places and times and to adopt the point of view (POV) of other people, also termed Theory of Mind (ToM). While ToM has been extensively investigated, self-projection with respect to the social networks of ones own and of others has yet to be systematically studied. Here we asked participants to project themselves to four different POVs: a significant other, a non-significant other, a famous-person, and their own-self. From each POV they were asked to rate the level of affiliation (closeness) to different individuals in the respective social network while undergoing functional MRI. Participants were always faster making judgments from their own POV compared to other POVs (self-projection effect) and for people who were personally closer to their adopted POV (self-reference effect). Brain activity at the medial prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex in the self POV condition was found to be higher compared to all other conditions. Activity at the right temporoparietal junction and medial parietal cortex was found to distinguish between the personally related (self, significant- and non-significant others) and unrelated (famous-person) individuals within the social network. Regardless of the POV, the precuneus, anterior cingulate cortex, prefrontal cortex, and temporoparietal junction distinguished between relatively closer and distant people. Representational similarity analysis (RSA) implicated the left retrosplenial cortex as crucial for social distance processing across all POVs.
tide display screening techniques can identify drug leads and biological probes with exceptional affinity and specificity. To date, however, the structural and functional diversity encoded in such peptide libraries remains unexplored. We have used the Random nonstandard Peptide Integrated Discovery (RaPID) system to develop cyclic peptide inhibitors of several acetyllysine-binding bromodomains from the Bromodomain and Extra-Terminal domain (BET) family of epigenetic regulators. These peptides have very high affinities for their targets and exhibit extraordinary selectivity (up to 106-fold), making them the highest-affinity and most specific BET-binding molecules discovered to date. Crystal structures of 13 distinct peptide-bromodomain complexes, which all target the acetyllysine-binding pocket, reveal remarkable diversity in both peptide structure and binding mode, and include both -helical and -sheet type structures. The peptides can exhibit a high degree of structural pre-organization and bivalent binding of two BDs by one peptide was common, flagging the potential for a new direction in inhibitor design that could bring stronger discrimination between BET-family paralogues. Our data demonstrate for the first time the enormous potential held in these libraries to provide a wide array of modes against a single target, maximizing the opportunity to attain high potency and specificity ligands to a wide variety of proteins.
 to sound-level statistics is thought to be crucial for optimal perception, but research has focused on neurophysiological recordings, mostly in non-human mammals. Behavioral evidence for adaptation to sound-level statistics is sparse. Here we use electroencephalography (EEG) and behavioral methods to investigate how the statistics of sound-level distributions affect neural activity in auditory cortex and the detection of near-threshold changes in sound amplitude. We presented noise bursts with sound levels drawn from distributions with either a low (15 dB SL) or a high (45 dB SL) modal sound level. One group of participants listened passively to the stimulation while EEG was recorded (Experiment I). A second participant group performed a behavioral amplitude-modulation detection task (Experiment II). Neural responses to noise bursts and sensitivity to amplitude modulation depended on sound-level statistical context: Consistent with an account positing that the sensitivity of neurons to sound intensity changes with ambient sound level, neural responses and amplitude-modulation sensitivity (d9) for noise bursts at moderate intensities were larger for low ambient sound levels compared to high ambient sound levels. Neural activity appears to adapt to sound-level statistics in humans, perhaps fine-tuning perceptual sensitivity to optimize detection of subtle changes in sound amplitude.
eveloped approaches for highly-multiplexed 2-dimensional (2D) and 3D imaging have revealed complex patterns of cellular positioning and cell-cell interactions with important roles in both cellular and tissue level physiology. However, robust and accessible tools to quantitatively study cellular patterning and tissue architecture are currently lacking. Here, we developed a spatial analysis toolbox, Histo-Cytometric Multidimensional Analysis Pipeline (CytoMAP), which incorporates neural network based data clustering, positional correlation, dimensionality reduction, and 2D/3D region reconstruction to identify localized cellular networks and reveal fundamental features of tissue organization. We apply CytoMAP to study the microanatomy of innate immune subsets in murine lymph nodes (LNs) and reveal mutually exclusive segregation of migratory dendritic cells (DCs), regionalized compartmentalization of SIRPa-dermal DCs, as well as preferential association of resident DCs with select LN vasculature. These studies provide new insights into the organization of myeloid cells in LNs, and demonstrate that CytoMAP is a comprehensive analytics toolbox for revealing fundamental features of tissue organization in quantitative imaging datasets.
alloproteinases (MMP) are a large family of proteases comprising 24 members in vertebrates. They are well known for their extracellular matrix remodelling activity. MMP28 is the last member of the family to be discovered. It is a secreted MMP involved in wound healing, immune system maturation, cell survival and migration. MMP28 is also expressed during embryogenesis in human and mouse. Here we describe the detailed expression profile of MMP28 in Xenopus laevis embryos. We show that MMP28 is expressed maternally and accumulates at neurula and tailbud stages specifically in the cranial placode territories adjacent to migrating neural crest cells. As a secreted MMP, MMP28 may be required in normal neural crest-placode interactions.
ied that ferroptosis, an iron-dependent non-apoptotic cell death process, occurs in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, and plays a key role in infection-related development therein. Ferroptosis in the blast fungus was confirmed based on the four basic criteria. We confirmed the dependence of ferroptosis on ferric ions, and optimized C11-BODIPY581/591 as a key sensor for subcellular detection and quantification of lipid peroxides that mediate ferroptotic cell death during the pathogenic growth phase of M. oryzae. In addition, we uncovered an important regulatory function for reduced glutathione and the NADPH oxidases in generating/modulating the superoxide moieties for ferroptotic cell death in Magnaporthe. Ferroptosis was found to be necessary for the specific developmental cell death in conidia during appressorium maturation in rice blast. Such ferroptotic cell death initiated first in the terminal cell and progressed sequentially to the entire conidium. Chelation of iron or chemical inhibition of ferroptosis caused conidial cells to remain viable and led to strong defects in host invasion by M. oryzae. Precocious induction of ferroptosis in a blast-susceptible rice cultivar led to resistance against M. oryzae invasion. Interestingly, ferroptosis and autophagy were found to play inter-reliant or codependent roles in contributing to such precise cell death in M. oryzae conidia during pathogenic differentiation. Our study provides significant molecular insights into understanding the role of developmental cell death and iron homeostasis in infection-associated morphogenesis and in fungus-plant interaction in the blast pathosystem.
ion of spatiotemporal patterns of gene expression is frequently guided by gradients of diffusible signaling molecules. The toggle switch subnetwork, composed of two cross-repressing transcription factors, is a common component of gene regulatory networks in charge of patterning, converting the continuous information provided by the gradient into discrete abutting stripes of gene expression. We present a synthetic biology framework to understand and characterize the spatiotemporal patterning properties of the toggle switch. To this end, we built a synthetic toggle switch controllable by diffusible molecules in Escherichia coli. We analyzed the patterning capabilities of the circuit by combining quantitative measurements with a mathematical reconstruction of the underlying dynamical system. The toggle switch can produce robust patterns with sharp boundaries, governed by bistability and hysteresis. We further demonstrate how the hysteresis, position, timing, and precision of the boundary can be controlled, highlighting the dynamical flexibility of the circuit.
 continuously exposed to diurnal fluctuations in light and temperature, and spontaneous changes in their physical or biotic environment. The circadian clock coordinates regulation of gene expression with a 24-hour period, enabling the anticipation of these events. We used RNA sequencing to characterize the Brachypodium distachyon transcriptome under light and temperature cycles, as well as under constant conditions. Approximately 3% of the transcriptome was regulated by the circadian clock, a smaller proportion reported in most other species. For most transcripts that were rhythmic under all conditions, including many known clock genes, the period of gene expression lengthened from 24 to 27 h in the absence of external cues. To functionally characterize the cyclic transcriptome in B. distachyon, we used Gene Ontology enrichment analysis, and found several terms significantly associated with peak expression at particular times of the day. Furthermore we identified sequence motifs enriched in the promoters of similarly-phased genes, some potentially associated with transcription factors. When considering the overlap in rhythmic gene expression and specific pathway behavior, thermocycles was the prevailing cue that controlled diurnal gene regulation. Taken together, our characterization of the rhythmic B. distachyon transcriptome represents a foundational resource with implications in other grass species.
yrosine kinases (RTKs) play crucial roles in human health, and their misregulation is implicated in disorders ranging from neurodegenerative disorders to cancers. The highly conserved mechanism of activation of RTKs makes them especially appealing candidates for control via optogenetic dimerization methods. This work offers a strategy for using the improved Light-Induced Dimer (iLID) system with a constructed tandem-dimer of its binding partner nano (tdnano) to build light-activatable versions of RTKs. In the absence of light, the iLID-RTK is cytosolic, monomeric and inactive. Under blue light, the iLID + tdnano system recruits two copies of iLID-RTK to tdnano, dimerizing and activating the RTK. We demonstrate that iLID opto-iTrkA and opto-iTrkB are capable of reproducing downstream ERK and Akt signaling only in the presence of tdnano. We further show with our opto-iTrkA that the system is compatible with multi-day and population-level activation of TrkA in PC12 cells. By leveraging genetic targeting of tdnano, we achieve RTK activation at a specific subcellular location even with whole-cell illumination, allowing us to confidently probe the impact of context on signaling outcome.
 essential enzyme involved in DNA replication and repair in eukaryotes. In a search for homologues of this protein, we identified and characterised Geobacillus stearothermophilus Bad, a novel bacterial DNA helicase-nuclease with similarity to human DNA2. We show that Bad contains an Fe-S cluster and identify four cysteine residues that are likely to co-ordinate the cluster by analogy to DNA2. The purified enzyme specifically recognises ss-dsDNA junctions and possesses ssDNA-dependent ATPase, ssDNA binding, ssDNA endonuclease, 5prime to 3prime ssDNA translocase and 5prime to 3prime helicase activity. Single molecule analysis reveals that Bad is a highly processive DNA motor capable of moving along DNA for distances of more than 4 kbp at a rate of ~200 base pairs per second at room temperature. Interestingly, as reported for the homologous human and yeast DNA2 proteins, the DNA unwinding activity of Bad is cryptic and can be unmasked by inactivating the intrinsic nuclease activity. Strikingly, our experiments also show that the enzyme loops DNA while translocating, which is an emerging feature of highly processive DNA unwinding enzymes. The bacterial Bad enzymes will provide an excellent model system for understanding the biochemical properties of DNA2-like helicase-nucleases and DNA looping motor proteins in general.
teriophage use a DNA packaging motor to encapsulate their genome during viral particle assembly. The small terminase (TerS) component acts as a molecular matchmaker by recognizing the viral genome as well as the main motor component, the large terminase (TerL). How TerS binds DNA and the TerL protein remains unclear. Here, we identify the TerS protein of the thermophilic bacteriophage P74-26. TerSP76-26 oligomerizes into a nonamer that binds DNA, stimulates TerL ATPase activity, and inhibits TerL nuclease activity. Our cryo-EM structure shows that TerSP76-26 forms a ring with a wide central pore and radially arrayed helix-turn-helix (HTH) domains. These HTH domains, which are thought to bind DNA by wrapping the helix around the ring, are rigidly held in an orientation distinct from that seen in other TerS proteins. This rigid arrangement of the putative DNA binding domain imposes strong constraints on how TerSP76-26 can bind DNA. Finally, the TerSP76-26 structure lacks the conserved C-terminal -barrel domain used by other TerS proteins for binding TerL, suggesting that a well-ordered C-terminal -barrel domain is not necessary for TerS to carry out its function as a matchmaker.
f AURKA is controlled through multiple mechanisms including phosphorylation, ubiquitin?mediated degradation, and allosteric interaction with TPX2. Activity peaks at mitosis before AURKA is degraded during mitotic exit in a process strictly dependent on APC/C coactivator FZR1. We used FZR1 knockout cells (FZR1KO) and a novel FRET-based AURKA biosensor to investigate how activity is regulated in absence of destruction. We found that AURKA activity in FZR1KO cells dropped at mitotic exit as rapidly as in parental cells, despite absence of destruction. Unexpectedly, TPX2 was degraded normally in FZR1KO cells. Overexpression of an N-terminal TPX2 fragment sufficient for AURKA binding, but not degraded at mitotic exit, caused delay in AURKA inactivation. We conclude that AURKA inactivation in mitotic exit is determined not by its own degradation but by degradation of TPX2 and therefore dependent on CDC20 rather than FZR1. The biosensor revealed that FZR1 instead suppresses AURKA activity in interphase and is critically required for assembly of the interphase mitochondrial network after mitosis.
asmic Reticulum (ER)-resident intramembrane rhomboid protease RHBDL4 generates metastable protein fragments and together with the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) machinery provides a clearance mechanism for aberrant and surplus proteins. However, the endogenous substrate spectrum and with that the role of RHBDL4 in physiological ERAD is mainly unknown. Here, we use quantitative proteomics to identify physiological RHBDL4 substrates. This revealed oligosacharyltransferase (OST) complex subunits such as the catalytic active subunit STT3A as substrates for the RHBDL4-dependent ERAD pathway. RHBDL4-catalyzed cleavage inactivates OST subunits by triggering dislocation into the cytoplasm and subsequent proteasomal degradation. RHBDL4-catalyzed cleavage is enhanced by positive charged transmembrane residues, which are recognized by a putative negative-charged docking site at the rhomboid active site gate. RHBDL4 controls the abundance and activity of OST, suggesting a novel link between the ERAD machinery and glycosylation tuning in the ER.
inal epithelium is a structured organ composed of crypts harboring Lgr5+ stem cells, and villi harboring differentiated cells. Spatial transcriptomics have demonstrated profound zonation of epithelial gene expression along the villus axis, but the mechanisms shaping this spatial variability are unknown. Here, we combined laser capture micro-dissection and single cell RNA sequencing to uncover spatially zonated populations of mesenchymal cells along the crypt-villus axis. These included villus tip telocytes (VTTs) that express Lgr5, a gene previously considered a specific crypt epithelial stem cell marker. VTTs are elongated cells that line the villus tip epithelium and signal through Bmp morphogens and the non-canonical Wnt5a ligand. Their ablation strongly perturbs the zonation of enterocyte genes induced at the villus tip. Our study provides a spatially-resolved cell atlas of the small intestinal stroma and exposes Lgr5+ villus tip telocytes as regulators of the epithelial spatial expression programs along the villus axis.
 bacteria, including important pathogens, exhibit a distinctive means of swimming via undulations of the entire cell. Motility is powered by the rotation of supercoiled endoflagella that wrap around the cell body, confined within the periplasmic space. To investigate the structural basis of flagellar supercoiling, which is critical for motility, we determined the structure of native flagellar filaments from the spirochete Leptospira by integrating high-resolution cryo-electron tomography and X-ray crystallography. We show that these filaments are coated by a highly asymmetric, multi-component sheath layer, contrasting with flagellin-only homopolymers previously observed in exoflagellated bacteria. Distinct sheath proteins localize to the filament inner and outer curvatures to define the supercoiling geometry, explaining a key functional attribute of the spirochete flagellum.
 magnetic resonance (MR) methods for measuring real-time changes of tissue microstructure and membrane permeability of live and fixed neural tissue. Diffusion and exchange MR measurements are performed using the large static gradient produced by a single-sided permanent magnet. Using tissue delipidation methods, we show that water diffusion is restricted solely by lipid membranes. Most of the diffusion signal can be assigned to water in tissue which is far from membranes. The remaining 25% can be assigned to water restricted within membrane structures in the range of 200-1400 nm at the cellular, organelle, and vesicle levels. Diffusion exchange spectroscopy measures water exchanging between membrane structures and free environments at 100 1/s.
c Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease of adulthood that affects voluntary motricity and rapidly leads to full paralysis and death. ALS arises from the combined degeneration of motoneurons in the spinal cord and brain stem, responsible for muscle denervation, and corticospinal projection neurons (CSN), responsible for emergence of the upper motor neuron syndrome. Recent studies carried on ALS patients suggest that the disease may initiate in the motor cortex and spread to its projection targets. However, this corticofugal hypothesis of ALS has not yet been specifically challenged. Here, we provide a direct test of this hypothesis by genetically removing subcerebral projection neurons (SubCerPN), including CSN, in Sod1G86R mice, a mouse model of ALS. Ablation of the transcription factor Fezf2, leading to the complete absence of all SubCerPN, delays disease onset, reduces weight loss and motor impairment, and increases survival without modifying disease duration. Importantly absence of SubCerPN and CSN also limits pre-symptomatic hyperreflexia. Together, our results demonstrate that major corticofugal tracts are critical to ALS onset, and that SubCerPN and CSN in particular may carry detrimental signals to their downstream targets. In its whole, this study provides first experimental arguments in favour of the corticofugal hypothesis of ALS.
pes covering bacterial cytoplasm possess remarkable elastic properties. They are rigid enough to resist large pressures while being flexible enough to adapt to growth under environmental constraints. Similarly, the virus shells play an important role in their functions. However, the effects of mechanical properties of the outer shell in controlling and maintaining the sizes of bacteria or viruses are unknown. Here, we present a hydrodynamic &quot;bubbles with shell&quot; model, motivated by the study of bubble stability in fluids, to demonstrate that shell rigidity and turgor pressure control the sizes of bacteria and viruses. A dimensionless compliance parameter, expressed in terms of the elastic modulus of the shell, its thickness and the turgor pressure, determines membrane response to deformation and the size of the organisms. By analyzing the experiment data, we show that bacterial and viral sizes correlate with  shell elasticity, which plays a critical role in regulating size.
al protein complexin contains multiple domains that exert both clamping and facilitatory functions to tune spontaneous and action potential triggered synaptic release. We address the clamping mechanism and show that the accessory helix of complexin arrests the assembly of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex that forms the core machinery of intracellular membrane fusion. In a reconstituted fusion assay, site- and stage-specific photo-cross-linking reveals that prior to fusion the complexin accessory helix laterally binds the membrane-proximal C-terminal ends of SNAP25 and VAMP2. Corresponding complexin interface mutants selectively increase spontaneous release of neurotransmitter in living neurons, implying that the accessory helix suppresses final zippering/assembly of the SNARE four-helix bundle by restraining VAMP2 and SNAP25.
postural sway is often observed in people with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), but our understanding of how individuals with mTBI control their head during stance is limited. The purpose of this study was to determine if people with mTBI exhibit increased sway at the head compared with healthy controls. People with persisting symptoms after mTBI (n = 59, 41 women) and control participants (n = 63, 38 women) stood quietly for one minute in four conditions: eyes open on a firm surface (EO-firm), eyes closed on a firm surface (EC-firm), eyes open on a foam pad (EO-foam), and eyes closed on foam (EC-foam). Inertial sensors at the head, sternum, and lumbar region collected tri-axial accelerations. Root-mean-square (RMS) accelerations in anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral (ML) directions, and sway ratios between the head and sternum, head and lumbar, and sternum and lumbar region, were compared between groups. People with mTBI predominantly demonstrated greater sway than controls across conditions and directions. During foam-surface conditions, the control group, but not the mTBI group, reduced ML sway at their head and trunk relative to their lumbar. These results are consistent with suggestions of inflexible postural control in people with mTBI.
itively charged protein segments are known to result in poor translation efficiency by the action of the ribosome quality control complex (RQC). This effect may be explained by ribosome stalling caused by electrostatic interactions between the nascent peptide and the negatively charged ribosome exit tunnel. This leads to translation termination followed by activation of mRNA decay pathways and protein degradation by RQC. Polybasic peptides are mainly studied with reporter systems, where artificial sequences are introduced into heterologous genes. The unique example of an endogenous protein targeted by RQC is Rqc1, a protein essential for the RQC activity. RQC arguably regulates Rqc1 levels through a conserved polybasic domain present in its N-term. We aimed to check if RQC act as a regulatory mechanism for other endogenous proteins containing polybasic domains. Here we show by bioinformatics, ribosome profiling data, and western blot protein quantification that endogenous proteins containing polybasic domains similar to or even more positively charged than Rqc1 are not targeted by RQC, suggesting that endogenous polybasic domains are not sufficient to induce degradation by this complex. We further demonstrate that Rqc1 levels are not regulated by the RQC complex, but by Ltn1 alone, in a post-translational fashion.
: Streptomycete bacteria are prolific producers of specialised metabolites, many of which have clinically relevant bioactivity. A striking feature of their genomes is the expansion of gene families that encode the same enzymatic function. Genes that undergo expansion events, either by horizontal gene transfer or duplication, can have a range of fates: genes can be lost, or they can undergo neo-functionalisation or sub-functionalisation. To test whether expanded gene families in Streptomyces exhibit differential expression, an RNA-Seq approach was used to examine cultures of wild-type Streptomyces coelicolor grown with either glucose or tween as the sole carbon source.Results: RNA-Seq analysis showed that two-thirds of genes within expanded gene families show transcriptional differences when strains were grown on tween compared to glucose. In addition, expression of specialised metabolite gene clusters (actinorhodin, isorenieratane, coelichelin and a cryptic NRPS) was also influenced by carbon source.  Conclusions: Expression of genes encoding the same enzymatic function had transcriptional differences when grown on different carbon sources. This transcriptional divergence enables partitioning to function under different physiological conditions. These approaches can inform metabolic engineering of industrial Streptomyces strains and may help develop cultivation conditions to activate the so-called silent biosynthetic gene clusters.
earch has demonstrated that perception and reasoning vary according to the phase of internal bodily signals such as heartbeat. This has been shown by locking the presentation of sensory events to distinct phases of the cardiac cycle. However, task-relevant information is not usually encountered in such a phase-locked manner nor passively accessed, but rather actively sampled at one9s own pace. Moreover, if the phase of the cardiac cycle is an important modulator of perception and cognition, as previously proposed, then the way in which we actively sample the world should be similarly modulated by the phase of the cardiac cycle. Here we tested this by coregistration of eye movements and heartbeat signals while participants freely compared differences between two visual arrays. Across three different analyses, we found a significant coupling of saccades, subsequent fixations, and blinks with the cardiac cycle. More eye movements were generated during the systolic phase of the cardiac cycle, which has been reported as the period of maximal effect of the baroreceptors9 activity upon cognition. Conversely, more fixations were found during the diastole phase (quiescent baroreceptors). Lastly, more blinks were generated in the later period of the cardiac cycle. These results suggest that interoceptive and exteroceptive processing do adjust to each other; in our case, by sampling the outer environment during quiescent periods of the inner organism.
in complex environments rely on flexibly utilizing past experience as required by context and instructions. This process depends on medial frontal cortex (MFC) and the medial temporal lobe (MTL), but it remains unknown how these structures interact during memory retrieval. We recorded single neurons in MFC and MTL while human subjects switched between making memory and categorization-based decisions. Here we show that MFC rapidly implements changing task demands by utilizing different subspaces of neural activity during different types of decisions. Choices requiring memory retrieval selectively engaged phase-locking between theta-frequency band oscillations in MTL and MFC neurons. Choice neurons signaled decisions independent of output modality. In contrast, no effect of task demands was seen locally in the MTL. This work reveals a mechanism for selectively engaging memory retrieval and shows that unlike perceptual decision-making, memory-related information is only represented in frontal cortex when choices require it.
o humans and experimental animals to loud noises produce cognitive and emotional disorders and recent studies have shown that hippocampal neuronal function is affected by auditory stimulation or deprivation. We have found previously that in the hippocampus of rats exposed to high-intensity sound (110 dB) for one-minute the Schaffer-CA1 long-term potentiation (LTP) is strongly inhibited. Here we investigated possible mechanisms involved in this effect. We found, using c-fos expression, that exposure to 110 dB sound-activated neurons in the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal region. Using electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal slices, we found that both GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission were unaffected by high-intensity sound stimulation. However, hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is involved in promoting hippocampal synaptic plasticity, presented decreased levels in sound-stimulated animals. Perfusion of slices with BDNF revert the inhibition of LTP after a single sound stimulus in comparison to sham-stimulated rats. Furthermore, the perfusion with LM 22A4, a TrkB receptor agonist also rescued LTP from sound-stimulated animals. Our results strongly suggest that the exposure to high-intensity sound inhibits the BDNF production in the hippocampus, which could be a possible mechanism of the inhibition of LTP by high-intensity sound exposure.
ller (NK) cells are part of the innate immune system and are capable of killing diseased cells. As a result, NK cells are being used for adoptive cell therapies for cancer patients. The activation of NK cell stimulatory receptors leads to a cascade of intracellular phosphorylation reactions, which activates key signaling species that facilitate the secretion of cytolytic molecules required for cell killing. Strategies that maximize the activation of such intracellular species can increase the likelihood of NK cell activation upon contact with a cancer cell, and thereby improve efficacy of NK cell-based therapies. However, due to the complexity of intracellular signaling, it is difficult to deduce a priori which strategies can enhance species activation. Therefore, we constructed a mechanistic model of the CD16, 2B4 and NKG2D signaling pathways in NK cells to simulate strategies that enhance signaling. The model predictions were fit to published data and validated with a separate dataset. Model simulations demonstrate strong network activation when the CD16 pathway is stimulated. The magnitude of species activation is most sensitive to the receptor concentration and the rate at which the receptor is deactivated. Co-stimulation of CD16 and NKG2D in silico required fewer ligands to achieve half-maximal activation than other combinations, suggesting co-stimulating these pathways is most effective in activating the species. We applied the model to predict the effects of perturbing the signaling network and found two strategies that can potently enhance network activation. When the availability of ligands is low, it is more influential to engineer NK cell receptors that are resistant to proteolytic cleavage. In contrast, for high ligand concentrations, inhibiting phosphatase activity leads to more activation. The work presented here establishes a framework for understanding the complex, nonlinear aspects of NK cell signaling and provides detailed strategies for enhancing NK cell activation.
n sequencing technology have made it possible to generate large numbers of long, high-accuracy sequencing reads. For instance, the new PacBio Sequel platform can generate hundreds of thousands of high-quality circular consensus sequences in a single run. Good programs exist for aligning these reads for genome assembly. However, these long reads can also be used for other purposes, such as sequencing PCR amplicons that contain various features of interest. For instance, PacBio circular consensus sequences have been used to identify the mutations in influenza viruses in single cells, or to link barcodes to gene mutants in deep mutational scanning. For such applications, the alignment of the sequences to the targets may be fairly trivial, but it is not trivial to then parse specific features of interest (such as mutations, unique molecular identifiers, cell barcodes, and flanking sequences) from these alignments. Here we describe alignparse, a Python package for parsing complex sets of features from long sequences that map to known targets. Specifically, it allows the user to provide complex target sequences in Genbank format that contain an arbitrary number of user-defined sub-sequence features. It then aligns the sequencing reads to these targets and filters alignments based on whether the user-specified features are present with the desired identities (which can be set to different thresholds for different features). Finally, it parses out the sequences, mutations, and/or accuracy of these features as specified by the user. The flexibility of this package therefore fulfills the need for a tool to extract and analyze complex sets of features in large numbers of long sequencing reads.
 more and more have to deal with objects with non-numeric descriptions: texts (e.g. genetic sequences or even whole genomes), graphs, images, etc. There even could be no variables or descriptions at all when variability of objects is defined by similarity matrix. It is also possible to have too many variables (e.g. a magnitude of millions is reachable in mass spectrometry or genome research). In this case it is necessary to switch to object similarity matrices which drastically reduces dimensionality to hundreds or thousands. It is software developer9s responsibility to keep this use cases in mind and provide means for working with such data instead of shifting the problem to the users. Software should be more convenient for them and allow solving wider range of problems with fairly simple mathematical apparatus. In particular principal component analysis (PCA) is rather popular among biologists. But, the necessity of variables is an illusion. It9s enough to have a matrix of Euclidean distances between objects and apply method of the principal coordinates (PCo) (or multidimensional scaling for dissimilarity matrix, MDS). In the late 70s of the last century B. Efron proposed generating a set of new samples from the source sample EDF as a model for sample9s general distribution to get confidence estimation. He called it &quot;bootstrap&quot;. For the statistical software developers this primarily means that PCo, MDS, and bootstrap should be implemented. Further, the use of bootstrap results in huge increase of repetitions of data analysis (from hundreds to millions of times) which is impossible to do in interactive mode. Therefore a part of the analysis requiring bootstrap should be written as a script in its entirety. Further user interaction should be eliminated. Obviously this process could be efficiently done in parallel. There are multitude of tools for doing it varying from scripting languages like R or Python to specialized software packages like PAST, CANOCO, Chemostat, STATISTICA, and MATLAB. Researchers who are not versed in software development tend to use tools like PAST, even if they may not cover all their needs, including automating frequently performed tasks. However, automatic analysis is a key element for the upcoming era of bootstrap analysis. We developed a simple and convenient package JACOBI4, which allows researchers without programming experience to automate multidimensional statistical analysis. Package and methods implemented in it can be useful in studies of both medical (gene expression for various diseases) and biological (regularities of molecular sequence variability) data. It goes without saying that the use of JACOBI4 is in no way limited to these examples. The package can be used directly, taking already developed scripts and editing them to fit own needs. Package JACOBI4 is freely available at [w1]. There are also articles available in which JACOBI4 is used to process real world data, as well as supplemental files containing JACOBI4 scripts and data for them.Key words: genetic sequence, distance matrix, bootstrap, script.
hain (AL) amyloidosis, pathogenic monoclonal light chains (LCs) deposit as amyloid fibrils in target organs. Molecular determinants of LC pathogenicity are currently unknown. Here, we present LICTOR, a method to predict LC toxicity based on the distribution of somatic mutations acquired during clonal selection. LICTOR achieves specificity and sensitivity of 0.82 and 0.76, respectively, with an AUC of 0.87, making it a valuable tool for early AL diagnosis.
 of deep learning and the open access to a substantial collection of imaging data provide a potential solution to computational image transformation, which is gradually changing the landscape of optical imaging and biomedical research. However, current deep-learning implementations usually operate in a supervised manner, and the reliance on a laborious and error-prone data annotation procedure remains a barrier towards more general applicability. Here, we propose an unsupervised image transformation enlightened by cycle-consistent generative adversarial networks (cycleGANs) to facilitate the utilization of deep learning in optical microscopy. By incorporating the saliency constraint into cycleGAN, the unsupervised approach, dubbed as content-preserving cycleGAN (c 2 GAN), can learn the mapping between two image domains and avoid the misalignment of salient objects without paired training data. We demonstrate several image transformation tasks such as fluorescence image restoration, whole-slide histological coloration, and virtual fluorescent labeling. Quantitative evaluations prove that c 2 GAN achieves robust and high-fidelity image transformation across different imaging modalities and various data configurations. We anticipate that our framework will encourage a paradigm shift in training neural networks and democratize deep learning algorithms for optical society.
nematode (RKN, Meloidogyne javanica) presents a great challenge to Solanaceae crops, including the potato. In this report, we conducted an investigation to understand the transcriptional regulation of molecular responses in potato roots during a compatible interaction following RKN infection. In this study, analysis of gene expression profiles using RNA-seq of Solanum tuberosum cv Mondial with RKN interaction at 0, 3- and 7-days post-inoculation (dpi). In total, 4,948 and 4,484 genes were respectively detected as differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at 3 and 7 dpi. Functional annotation revealed that genes associated with metabolic process were enriched at the transcriptional level suggesting they have an important role in RKN disease development. Nematode infection caused down-regulation of 282 genes associated with pathogen perception hence interfering with activation plant immune system. Further, late activation of pathogenesis-related genes, down-regulation disease resistance genes and activation of host antioxidant system contributed to a susceptible response. Activation of Jasmonic acid (JA) pathway and protease inhibitors was due to wounding during nematode migration and feeding. Nematode infection suppressed ethylene (ET) and salicylic acid (SA) signalling pathway hindering SA/ET responsive genes involved with defense. Induction of auxin biosynthesis genes, regulation of cytokinin levels and up-regulation of transporter genes facilitated of nematode feeding sites (NFSs) initiation. The regulation of several families of transcription factors (TFs) in the plant, such as WRKY, GRAS, ERF BHLH and MYB, was affected by RKN infection disrupting plant defense signalling pathways. This clearly suggest that TFs played an indispensable role in physiological adaptation for successful RKN disease development. This genome-wide analysis revealed the molecular regulatory networks in potato roots which are successfully manipulated by RKN. Being the first study analysing transcriptome profiling of RKN diseased potato, it will provide unparalleled insight into the mechanism underlying disease development.
n proteins are formed by extended polypeptide chains, called -strands. While there is a general consensus on two types of -strands, viz. 9edge strands9 (or 9edges9) and 9inner strands9 (or 9central strands9), the possibility of distinguishing between different regions of inner strands remains less explored. In this paper, we address the portions of inner strands of -sheets that stick out on either or both sides. We call these portions the 9indent strands9 or 9indents9 because they give the typical indented appearance to -sheets. Similar to the edge strands, the indent strands also have -bridge partner residues on one side while the other side is still open for backbone hydrogen bonds. Despite this similarity, the indent strands differ from the edge strands in terms of various properties such as -bulges and amino acid composition due to their localization within -sheets and therefore within folded proteins to certain extent. The localization of indents and edges within folded proteins seems to govern the strategies deployed to deter unhindered -sheet propagation through -strand stacking interactions. Our findings suggest that, edges and indents differ in their strategies to avoid further -strand stacking. Short length itself is a good strategy to avoid stacking and a majority of indents are two residue or shorter in length. Edge strands on the other hand are overall longer. While long edges are known to use various negative design strategies like -bulges, prolines, strategically placed charges, inward-pointing charged side chains and loop coverage to avoid further -strand stacking, long indents seem to favor mechanisms such as enrichment in flexible residues with high solvation potential and depletion in hydrophobic residues in response to their less solvent exposed nature. Such subtle differences between indents and edges could be leveraged for designing novel -sheet architectures.
s the state-of-the-art technique to experimentally determine transcriptome-wide binding sites of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). However, it relies on gene expression which can be highly variable between conditions, and thus cannot provide a complete picture of the RBP binding landscape. This necessitates the use of computational methods to predict missing binding sites. Here we present GraphProt2, a computational RBP binding site prediction method based on graph convolutional neural networks (GCN). In contrast to current CNN methods, GraphProt2 supports variable length input as well as the possibility to accurately predict nucleotide-wise binding profiles. We demonstrate its superior performance compared to GraphProt and a CNN-based method on single as well as combined CLIP-seq datasets.
: Studies on structural variants (SV) are expanding rapidly. As a result, and thanks to third generation sequencing technologies, the number of discovered SVs is increasing, especially in the human genome. At the same time, for several applications such as clinical diagnoses, it is important to genotype newly sequenced individuals on well defined and characterized SVs. Whereas several SV genotypers have been developed for short read data, there is a lack of such dedicated tool to assess whether known SVs are present or not in a new long read sequenced sample, such as the one produced by Pacific Biosciences or Oxford Nanopore Technologies.Results: We present a novel method to genotype known SVs from long read sequencing data. The method is based on the generation of a set of reference sequences that represent the two alleles of each structural variant. Long reads are aligned to these reference sequences. Alignments are then analyzed and filtered out to keep only informative ones, to quantify and estimate the presence of each SV allele and the allele frequencies. We provide an implementation of the method, SVJedi, to genotype insertions and deletions with long reads. The tool has been applied to both simulated and real human datasets and achieves high genotyping accuracy. We also demonstrate that SV genotyping is considerably improved with SVJedi compared to other approaches, namely SV discovery and short read SV genotyping approaches.Availability: https://github.com/llecompte/SVJedi.git
 task in microbiome data analysis is to explore the association between a scalar response of interest and a large number of microbial taxa that are summarized as compositional data at different taxonomic levels. Motivated by fine-mapping of the microbiome, we propose a two-step compositional knockoff filter (CKF) to provide the effective finite-sample false discovery rate (FDR) control in high-dimensional linear log-contrast regression analysis of microbiome compositional data. In the first step, we employ the compositional screening procedure to remove insignificant microbial taxa while retaining the essential sum-to-zero constraint. In the second step, we extend the knockoff filter to identify the significant microbial taxa in the constrained sparse regression model for compositional data. Thereby, a subset of the microbes is selected from the high-dimensional microbial taxa as related to the response under a pre-specified FDR threshold. We study the asymptotic properties of the proposed two-step procedure including both sure screening and effective false discovery control. We demonstrate the finite-sample properties in simulation studies, which show the gain in the empirical power while controlling the nominal FDR. We also illustrate the usefulness of the proposed method with application to an inflammatory bowel disease dataset to identify microbial taxa that influence host gene expressions.
ocyte Antigen (HLA) is an essential component of the immune system which stimulates immune cells to provide protection and defense against cancer. More than thousands of HLA alleles have been reported in the literature; but, only a specific set of HLA alleles expressed in an individual. Recognition of cancer-associated mutations by the immune system depends on the presence of a particular set of alleles, that elicit an immune response to fight against cancer. It indicates that the occurrence of specific HLA alleles also affects the outcome of the cancer patients. In the current study, prediction models have been developed using 415 skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) patients for predicting the overall survival of patients from their HLA-alleles. It has been observed that the presence of certain superalleles in the patients is responsible for improved overall survival, which was referred to as favorable superalleles like HLA-B*55 (HR=0.15, 95% CI 0.034 to 0.67), HLA-A*01 (HR=0.5, 95% CI 0.3 to 0.8).In contrast, the presence of certain superalleles in the patients is responsible for their poor survival; those superalleles were referred as unfavourable superalleles such as HLA-B*50 (HR=2.76, 95% CI 1.284 to 5.941), HLA-DRB1*12 (HR=3.44, 95% CI 1.64 to 7.2). We developed prediction models using 14 HLA-superalleles and five clinical characteristics for predicting high-risk SKCM patients and achieve HR=4.52 (95% CI 3.088-6.609) with p-value = 8.01E-15. Lastly, we provide a web-based service to the community for predicting the risk in SKCM patients (https://webs.iiitd.edu.in/raghava/skcmhrp/)
acid (SA) is an important phytohormone mediating both local and systemic defense responses in plants. Despite over half a century of research, how plants biosynthesize SA remains unresolved. In Arabidopsis, a major part of SA is derived from isochorismate, a key intermediate produced by the isochorismate synthase (ICS), which is reminiscent of SA biosynthesis in bacteria. Whereas bacteria employ an isochorismate pyruvate lyase (IPL) that catalyzes the turnover of isochorismate to pyruvate and SA, plants do not contain an IPL ortholog and generate SA from isochorismate through an unknown mechanism. Combining genetic and biochemical approaches, we delineated the SA biosynthetic pathway downstream of isochorismate in Arabidopsis. We show that PBS3, a GH3 acyl adenylase-family enzyme important for SA accumulation, catalyzes ATP- and Mg2+-dependent conjugation of L-glutamate primarily to the 8-carboxyl of isochorismate and yields the key SA biosynthetic intermediate isochorismoyl-glutamate A. Moreover, EPS1, a BAHD acyltransferase-family protein with previously implicated role in SA accumulation upon pathogen attack, harbors a noncanonical active site and an unprecedented isochorismoyl-glutamate A pyruvoyl-glutamate lyase (IPGL) activity that produces SA from the isochorismoyl-glutamate A substrate. Together, PBS3 and EPS1 form a two-step metabolic pathway to produce SA from isochorismate in Arabidopsis, which is distinct from how SA is biosynthesized in bacteria. This study closes a major knowledge gap in plant SA metabolism and would help develop new strategies for engineering disease resistance in crop plants.
ion factors (TF) are essential for proper plant growth and development. Several legumes, particularly soybean, are rich sources of protein and oil, with great impact in the economy of several countries. Here we report a phylogenomic analysis of major TF families in legumes and their potential association with important traits such as nitrogen fixation and seed development. We used TF DNA-binding domains to systematically screen the genomes of 15 legume and 5 non-legume species. The percentage of TFs ranged from 3-8% of the gene complements. TF orthologous groups (OG) in extant species were used to estimate OG sizes in ancestor nodes using a gene birth-death model, which allowed us to identify lineage-specific expansions. Together, OG analysis and rate of synonymous substitutions (Ks) between gene pairs show that major TF expansions are strongly associated with known whole-genome duplication (WGD) events in the legume (~58 mya) and Glycine (~13 mya) lineages, which account for a large fraction of the Ph. vulgaris and Gl. max TF repertoires. Out of the 3407 Gl. max TFs, 1808 and 676 can be traced back to a single homeolog in Ph. vulgaris and Vi vinifera, respectively. We found a trend for TFs expanded in legumes to be preferentially transcribed in roots and nodules, suggesting their recruitment early in the evolution of nodulation in the legume clade. We also found TF expansions in the Glycine WGD that were followed by gene loss in the wild soybean Gl. soja, including genes located within important quantitative trait loci. Together, our findings strongly support the roles of two WGDs in shaping the TF repertoires in the legume and Glycine lineages, which are likely related to important aspects of legume and soybean biology.
ive growth of genomic, chemical and pathological data provides new opportunities and challenges to re-recognize life activities within human cells. However, there exist few computational models that aggregate various biomarkers to comprehensively reveal the physical and functional landscape of the biology system. Here, we construct a graph called Molecular Association Network (MAN) and a representation method called Biomarker2vec. Specifically, MAN is a heterogeneous attribute network consists of 18 kinds of edges (relationships) among 8 kinds of nodes (biomarkers). Biomarker2vec is an algorithm that represents the nodes as vectors by integrating biomarker attribute and behavior. After the biomarkers are described as vectors, random forest classifier is applied to carry out the prediction task. Our approach achieved promising performance on 18 relationships, with AUC of 0.9608 and AUPR of 0.9572. We also empirically explored the contribution of attribute and behavior feature of biomarkers to the results. In addition, a drug-disease association prediction case study was performed to validate our method9s ability on a specific object. These results strongly prove that MAN is a network with rich topological and biological information and Biomarker2vec can indeed adequately characterize biomarkers. Generally, our method can achieve simultaneous prediction of both single-type and multi-type relationships, which bring beneficial inspiration to relevant scholars and expand the medical research paradigm.
f RNA viruses, encoding RNA-directed RNA polymerase (RdRp) is relatively conserved due to its crucial function in viral genome replication and transcription making it a useful target for genetic diversity study and PCR detection. In this study, we investigated the genetic diversity of 21 tilapia lake virus (TiLV) genome segment 1 sequences predictively coding for RdRp subunit P1. Those sequences were obtained from infected fish samples collected in Ecuador, Israel, Peru, and Thailand between 2011 and 2019 (nine sequences from this study and 12 sequences from GenBank). Primers were then designed from the highly conserved regions among all 21 TiLV segment 1 sequences and used in semi-nested RT-PCR condition optimization. The result revealed that all 21 TiLV segment 1 sequences showed 95.00-99.94 and 99.00-100% nucleotide and amino acid sequence identity, respectively. These isolates were phylogenically clustered into three separate genetic clades, called i) Israeli-2011 clade (containing of TiLV isolates from Israel collected in 2011, Ecuador, and Peru isolates), ii) monophyletic Israel-2012 clade (containing only TiLV isolates collected from Israel in 2012), and iii) Thai clade (containing only sequences obtained from Thailand isolates). The newly established PCR protocol was 100 times more sensitive than our previous segment 3-based protocol when comparatively assayed with RNA extracted from infected fish. The assay was also shown to be specific when tested against negative control samples, i.e. RNA extracted from clinical healthy tilapia and from bacterial and viral pathogens (other than TiLV) commonly found in aquatic animals. Validation experiment with RNA extracted from naturally infected fish specimens collected in 2013-2019 yielded positive test results for all samples tested, confirming that our newly designed primers and detection protocol against TiLV segment 1, have a potential application for detection of all current genetic variants of TiLV.
o survive to the exposure of DNA damaging agents, cells activate a complex response that coordinates the cellular metabolism, cell cycle progression and DNA repair. Among many other events, recent evidence has described global changes in mRNA splicing in cells treated with genotoxic agents. Here, we explore further this DNA damage-dependent alternative splicing. Indeed, we show that both the splicing factor SF3B2 and the repair protein CtIP contribute to the global pattern of splicing both in cells treated or not to DNA damaging agents. Additionally, we focus on a specific DNA damage- and CtIP-dependent alternative splicing event of the helicase PIF1 and explore its relevance for the survival of cells upon exposure to ionizing radiation. Indeed, we described how the nuclear, active form of PIF1 is substituted by a splicing variant, named vPIF1, in a fashion that requires both the presence of DNA damage and CtIP. Interestingly, timely expression of vPIF1 is required for optimal survival to exposure to DNA damaging agents, but early expression of this isoform delays early events of the DNA damage response. On the contrary, expression of the full length PIF1 facilitates those early events, but increases the sensitivity to DNA damaging agents if the expression is maintained long-term.
 disease virus (SDDV) is a novel Megalocytivirus causing scale drop disease (SDD) in Asian sea bass in Southeast Asia. In order to support disease diagnosis and surveillance, the present study developed a highly sensitive and specific SYBR Green qPCR assay for rapid detection of SDDV. Specific primers targeting a 135-bp fragment of ATPase coding gene of the SDDV genome were newly designed and subsequent gradient PCR assays were conducted to investigate their optimal annealing temperature. The optimized qPCR assay could detect as low as 2 viral copies per reaction and showed no cross amplification with DNA extracted from 12 viruses and bacteria commonly found in aquatic animals. The SDDV ATPase qPCR method was subsequently validated with field samples (n=86). The results revealed that all clinically sick fish (n=34) from 5 affected farms gave positive results. Interestingly, 30/52 samples of apparently healthy fish from 8 unaffected farms which previously tested negative for SDDV by semi-nested PCR assay were positive by the newly developed qPCR method. This suggested that qPCR method is highly sensitive and suitable for early screening of SDDV from clinically healthy fish and for disease confirmation of sick fish. Investigation of tissue tropism and viral load of SDDV revealed systemic viral infection with relatively high viral load (8 x 102 to 6.8 x104 copies per 200 ng of DNA template) in all 9 tested organs including eyes, brain, fin, gills, kidney, liver, kidney, spleen, and muscle. The newly developed qPCR method in this study delivered an accurate and reliable method for rapid detection of SDDV that may facilitate active surveillance and prevent widespread of the virus.
adical protein footprinting (HRPF) is a powerful technique for probing changes in protein topography, based on quantifying the amount of oxidation of different regions of a protein. While quantification of HRPF oxidation at the peptide level is relatively common, quantification at the residue level is challenging due to the influence of oxidation on MS/MS fragmentation and the large number of complex and only partially chromatographically resolved isomeric peptide oxidation products. HRPF quantification of isomeric peptide oxidation products (where the peptide sequence is the same but isomeric oxidation products are formed at different sites) at the residue level by electron transfer dissociation tandem mass spectrometry (ETD MS/MS) has been demonstrated in both model peptides and HRPF products, but the method is hampered by the partial separation of oxidation isomers by reversed phase chromatography. This requires custom MS/MS methods to equally sample all isomeric oxidation products across their elution window, greatly increasing method development time and reducing the oxidation products quantified in a single LC-MS/MS run. Here we present a zwitterionic hydrophilic interaction capillary chromatography (ZIC-HILIC) method to ideally co-elute all isomeric peptide oxidation products while separating different peptides. This allows us to relatively quantify peptide oxidation isomers using an ETD MS/MS spectrum acquired at any point across the single peptide oxidation isomer peak, greatly simplifying data acquisition and data analysis at both the peptide and amino acid level.
ni-Trypillia complex (CTC) flourished in eastern Europe for over two millennia (5100-2800 BCE) from the end of the Neolithic to the Early Bronze Age. Its vast distribution area encompassed modern-day eastern Romania, Moldova and western/central Ukraine. Due to a lack of existing burials throughout most of this time, only little is known about of the people associated with this complex and their genetic composition. Here, we present genome-wide data generated from the skeletal remains of four females that were excavated from two Late CTC sites in Moldova (3500-3100 BCE). All individuals carried a large Neolithicderived ancestry component and were genetically more closely related to Linear Pottery than to Anatolian farmers. Three of the specimens also showed considerable amounts of stepperelated ancestry, suggesting influx into the CTC gene-pool from people affiliated with, for instance, the Ukraine Mesolithic. The latter scenario is supported by archaeological evidence. Taken together, our results confirm that the steppe component had arrived in eastern Europe farming communities maybe as early as 3500 BCE. In addition, they are in agreement with the hypothesis of ongoing contacts and gradual admixture between incoming steppe and local western populations.
m of reverse engineering gene regulatory networks from high-throughput expression data is one of the biggest challenges in bioinformatics. In order to benchmark network inference algorithms, simulators of well-characterized expression datasets are often required. However, existing simulators have been criticized because they fail to emulate key properties of gene expression data.  In this study, we address two problems. First, we propose mechanisms to faithfully assess the realism of a synthetic gene expression dataset. Second, we design an adversarial simulator of expression data, gGAN, based on a Generative Adversarial Network. We show that our model outperforms existing simulators by a large margin, achieving realism scores that are up to 17 times higher than those of GeneNetWeaver and SynTReN. More importantly, our results show that gGAN is, to our best knowledge, the first simulator that passes the Turing test for gene expression data proposed by Maier et al. (2013).
 resistant Enterococcus faecium (VREfm) is an emerging antibiotic resistant pathogen. Strain-level investigations are beginning to reveal the molecular mechanisms used by VREfm to colonize regions of the human bowel. However, the role of commensal bacteria during VREfm colonization, in particular following antibiotic treatment, remains largely unknown. We employed amplicon 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolomics in a murine model system to try and investigate functional roles of the gut microbiome during VREfm colonization. First-order taxonomic shifts in gut microbial community composition were detected both in response to pretreatment using ceftriaxone, and to subsequent VREfm challenge. Using neural networking approaches to find co-occurrence profiles of bacteria and metabolites, we detected key metabolome features during and after VREfm colonization. These metabolite features were associated with Bacteroides, indicative of a transition towards a pre-antibiotic naive microbiome. This study shows the impacts of antibiotics on the gut ecosystem, and the progression of the microbiome in response to colonisation with VREfm. Our results offer insights towards identifying potential non-antibiotic alternatives to eliminate VREfm through metabolic re-engineering to preferentially select for Bacteroides. Importance: This study demonstrates the importance and power of linking bacterial composition profiling with metabolomics to find the interactions between commensal gut bacteria and a specific pathogen. Knowledge from this research will inform gut microbiome engineering strategies, with the aim of translating observations from animal models to human-relevant therapeutic applications.
lepidopteran larvae is a multifunctional tissue, which performs roles in digestion, absorption, immunity; transmission of pathogens and interaction with ingested various molecules. The proteins localized at the inner apical brush border membrane are primarily digestive proteases but some of them like aminopeptidase N, alkaline phosphatase, cadherins, ABC transporter C2 etc. interact with Crystal (Cry) toxins produced by Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). In the present study aminopeptidase N (APN) was characterized as Cry toxin interacting protein in larval midgut of castor semilooper, Achaea janata. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed the presence of multiple isoforms of APNs (APN1, 2, 4, 6 and 9) which have less than 40% sequence similarity but show the presence of characteristic GAMENEG and zinc-binding motifs. Feeding of sublethal dose of Cry toxin caused differential expression of various APN isoform. Further, 6th generation Cry toxin exposed larvae showed reduced expression of APN2. This report suggests that A. janata larvae exploit altered expression of APNs to overcome the deleterious effects of Cry toxicity, which might facilitate toxin tolerance in long run.
f a colour space where distance corresponds to discriminability has been fundamental to colour vision research since the 19th century. Despite their long-standing success there is a contradiction between the geometric framework that is typically used in these spaces (a particular application of Riemannian geometry) and a view of the transduction of sensory information as the result of a stochastic process. When this is made explicit, a subtly different approach is suggested which turns out to provide a general, and more complete framework for colour space. It is argued further that not only is a contradiction avoided, but that this framework is both intuitive and of real practical value, in particular for researchers interested in the visual behaviour and ecology of animals.
e disorder (AUD) has been associated with abnormalities in hippocampal volumes, but these relationships have not been fully explored with respect to sub-regional volumes, nor in association with individual characteristics such as gender differences, age, and memory. The present study examined the impact of those variables in relation to hippocampal subfield volumes in abstinent men and women with a history of AUD. Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging at 3 Tesla, we obtained brain images from 67 participants (31 women) with AUD and 63 healthy control (NC) participants (30 women) without AUD. We used Freesurfer 6.0 to segment the hippocampus into 12 regions. These were imputed into mixed models to examine the relationships of brain volume with AUD group, gender, age, drinking history, and memory. The AUD group had approximately 5% smaller CA1, hippocampal tail, and molecular layer regions than the NC group. Age was negatively associated with volumes for the AUD group in the hippocampal tail, subiculum, and presubiculum. The relationships for delayed and immediate memory with hippocampal tail volume differed for AUD and NC groups: Higher scores were associated with smaller volumes in the AUD group, but larger volumes in the NC group. Length of sobriety was associated with decreasing CA1 volume in women (0.02% per year) and increasing volume size in men (0.03% per year). These findings confirm and extend evidence that AUD, gender, age, and abstinence differentially impact volumes of component parts of the hippocampus. The course of abstinence on CA1 volume differed for men and women, and the differential relationships of subregional volumes to age and memory could indicate a distinction in the impact of AUD on functions of the hippocampal tail.
endon disorders are among the most difficult sports-related injuries to predict with current diagnostic tools. The purpose of this study was to identify a clinically useful marker for early tendon damage. We hypothesized that alterations in mean echogenicity are linked with changes in vitro tendon mechanics. To test our hypothesis, we harvested Achilles tendons from 10 fresh-frozen cadaveric feet and cyclically fatigued them using a universal test frame while we continuously acquired ultrasound images. Throughout this fatigue protocol, we applied 2 stress tests every 500 loading cycles to quantify changes in ultrasound imaging echogenicity. We continued this fatigue protocol until each tendon either failed completely or survived 150,000 cycles. Tendons that failed during the fatigue loading (6/10) underwent greater changes in mean echogenicity compared to tendons that did not fail (P = 0.031). These tendons that failed during fatigue loading demonstrated greater changes in mean echogenicity that surpassed 1.0%; whereas survivor tendons exhibited less than 0.5% changes in mean echogenicity. We found that changes in mean echogenicity measured with ultrasound increased proportionally with increased tendon damage. The magnitude of these changes was relatively small (&amp;lt;1.5% change in mean echogenicity) but may be an effective predictor of tendon failure. Mean echogenicity is a promising marker for quantifying fatigue damage in cadaveric Achilles tendons during a stress test. Although these changes cannot be detected with the naked eye, computer-based predictive models may effectively assess risk of tendon damage in physically active adults.
re small vesicles secreted by the cells, which mediate intercellular signalling and systemic physiological processes. Exosomes are known to originate from the intraluminal vesicles of the multivesicular endosome that fuses with the plasma membrane. We found that the non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines, HCC15 and A549, secreted exosomes with typical morphology and protein contents. Unexpectedly, transmission electron microscopy images indicated that the cells formed multivesicular structures that protruded from the plasma membrane and ruptured to release the exosomes. There were smooth multivesicular structures surrounded by an ordinary looking membrane, multivesicular structures coated by an electron dense layer with regular spacing pattern, and intermediate forms that combined elements of both. Electron microscopy images suggested that exosomes are release from these structures by burst events and not by the conventional fusion process. The molecular details of this novel mechanism for membrane association, deformation and fusion is to be unveiled in the future.
vival relays on environmental information gathered by their sensory systems. We found that contrast information of a looming stimulus biases the type of defensive behavior goldfish (Carassius auratus) perform. Low contrast looms only evoke subtle alarm reactions whose probability is independent of contrast. As looming contrast increases, the probability of eliciting a fast escape maneuver, the C-start response, increases dramatically. Contrast information also modulates the decision of when to escape. Although looming retinal size is determinant of response latency, we found that contrast acts as an additional parameter influencing this decision. When presented progressively higher contrast stimuli, animals need shorter periods of stimulus integration to initiate the response. Our results comply the notion that the decision to escape is a flexible process initiated with stimulus detection and followed by assessment of the perceived risk posed by the stimulus. Highly disruptive behaviors as the C-start are only observed when a multifactorial threshold that includes stimulus contrast is surpassed.
ccus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that can cause soft tissue infections but is also a frequent cause of foodborne illnesses. One contributing factor for this food association is its high salt tolerance allowing this organism to survive commonly used food preservation methods. How this resistance is mediated is poorly understood, particularly during long-term exposure. In this study, we used TN-seq to understand how the responses to osmotic stressors differ. Our results revealed distinctly different long-term responses to NaCl, KCl and sucrose stresses. In addition, we identified the DUF2538 domain containing gene SAUSA300_0957 (gene 957) as essential under salt stress. Interestingly, a 957 mutant was less susceptible to oxacillin and showed increased peptidoglycan crosslinking. The salt sensitivity phenotype could be suppressed by amino acid substitutions in the transglycosylase domain of the penicillin binding protein Pbp2, and these changes restored the peptidoglycan crosslinking to WT levels. These results indicate that increased crosslinking of the peptidoglycan polymer can be detrimental and highlight a critical role of the bacterial cell wall for osmotic stress resistance. This study will serve as a starting point for future research on osmotic stress response and help develop better strategies to tackle foodborne staphylococcal infections.
ical consequences of winter in freshwater systems are an understudied but rapidly emerging research area. Here, we argue that winter periods of reduced temperature and light (and potentially oxygen and resources) could play an underappreciated role in mediating the coexistence of species. This may be especially true for temperate and subarctic lakes, where seasonal changes in the thermal environment might fundamentally structure species interactions. With climate change already shortening ice-covered periods on temperate and polar lakes, consideration of how winter conditions shape biotic interactions is urgently needed. Using freshwater fishes in northern temperate lakes as a case study, we demonstrate how physiological trait differences (e.g., thermal preference, light sensitivity) drive differential responses to winter among competing species. Specifically, some species have higher a capacity for winter activity than others. Existing and new theory is presented to argue that such differential responses to winter can promote species coexistence. Importantly, if winter is a driver of niche differences that weaken competition among species, then shrinking winter periods could threaten coexistence by tipping the scales in favor of certain sets of species over others.
pp-mediated stringent response is a bacterial stress response implicated in virulence and antibiotic tolerance. Both synthesis and degradation of the (p)ppGpp alarmone nucleotide are mediated by RelA-SpoT Homolog (RSH) enzymes which can be broadly divided in two classes: single-domain short RSHs and multi-domain long RSHs enzymes. The regulatory ACT (Aspartokinase, Chorismate mutase and TyrA) / RRM (RNA Recognition Motif) domain is a near-universal C-terminal domain of long RSHs. Deletion of RRM in both monofunctional (synthesis-only) RelA as well as bifunctional (i.e. capable of both degrading and synthesising the alarmone) Rel renders the long RSH cytotoxic due to overproduction of (p)ppGpp. To probe the molecular mechanism underlying this effect we characterised  Escherichia coli  RelA and  Bacillus subtilis  Rel RSHs lacking RRM. We demonstrate that, first, the cytotoxicity caused by the removal of RRM is counteracted by secondary mutations that disrupt the interaction of the RSH with the starved ribosomal complex - the ultimate inducer of (p)ppGpp production by RelA and Rel - and, second, that the hydrolytic activity of Rel is not abrogated in the truncated mutant. Therefore, we conclude that the overproduction of (p)ppGpp by RSHs lacking the RRM domain is not explained by lack of auto-inhibition in the absence of RRM or/and a defect in (p)ppGpp hydrolysis. Instead, we argue that it is driven by misregulation of the RSH activation by the ribosome.
tional connectivity (FC) analyses based on magnetoencephalographic (MEG) signals have yet to exploit the intrinsic high-dimensional information. Typically, these analyses are constrained to regions of interest to avoid the curse of dimensionality, which leads to conservative hypothesis testing. We removed such constraint by extending cluster-permutation statistics for high-dimensional MEG-FC analyses. We demonstrated the feasibility of this approach by identifying MEG-FC resting-state changes in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a prodromal stage of Alzheimer9s disease. We found dense clusters of increased connectivity strength in MCI compared to healthy controls (hypersynchronization), in delta (1-4 Hz) and higher-theta (6-8 Hz) bands oscillations. These clusters mainly consisted of interactions between occipitofrontal and occipitotemporal regions in the left hemisphere and could potentially be used as neuromarkers of early progression in Alzheimer9s disease. Our novel approach can be used to generate high-resolution statistical FC maps for neuroimaging studies in general.
 variation (SV), where rearrangements delete, duplicate, invert or translocate DNA segments, is a major source of somatic cell variation. It can arise in rapid bursts, mediate genetic heterogeneity, and dysregulate cancer-related pathways. The challenge to systematically discover SVs in single cells remains unsolved, with copy-neutral and complex variants typically escaping detection. We developed single cell tri-channel-processing (scTRIP), a computational framework that jointly integrates read depth, template strand and haplotype phase to comprehensively discover SVs in single cells. We surveyed SV landscapes of 565 single cell genomes, including transformed epithelial cells and patient-derived leukemic samples, and discovered abundant SV classes including inversions, translocations and complex DNA rearrangements mediating oncogenic dysregulation. We dissected the 9molecular karyotype9 of the leukemic samples and examined their clonal structure. Different from prior methods, scTRIP also enabled direct detection and discrimination of SV mutational processes in individual somatic cells, including breakage-fusion-bridge cycles. scTRIP will facilitate studies of clonal evolution, genetic mosaicism and somatic SV formation, and could improve disease classification for precision medicine.
ces decorated with micro- and nanostructures are important tools in biomedical research used to control cellular shape, in studies of mechanotransduction, membrane mechanics, cell migration and cellular interactions with nanostructured surfaces. Existing methods to fabricate surface-bound nanostructures are typically limited either by resolution, aspect ratio or throughput. In this work, we explore electron beam lithography based structuring of the epoxy resist SU-8 on glass substrate. We focus on a systematic investigation of the process parameters and determine limits of the fabrication process, both in terms of spatial resolution, structure aspect ration and fabrication throughput. The described approach is capable of producing high-aspect ratio, surface bound nanostructures with height ranging from 100 nm to 4000 nm and with in-plane resolution below 100 nm directly on a transparent substrate. Fabricated nanostructured surfaces can be integrated with common techniques for biomedical research, such as high numerical aperture optical microscopy. Further more, we show how the described approach can be used to make nanostructures with multiple heights on the same surface, something which is not readily achievable using alternative fabrication approaches. Our research paves an alternative way of manufacturing nanostructured surfaces with applications in life science research.
e of long-lived, memory plasma cells in the bone marrow depends on survival factors available in the bone marrow, provided in niches organized by stromal cells. Here we describe that ex vivo we can prevent apoptosis of bone marrow plasma cells by supplying direct cell contact with stromal cells and the soluble cytokine APRIL. Integrin-mediated contact of bone marrow plasma cells with stromal cells activates the PI3K signaling pathway, leading to critical inactivation of FoxO1/3 and preventing the activation of mitochondrial stress-associated effector caspases 3 and 7. Likely, inhibition of PI3K signaling in vivo ablates bone marrow plasma cells. APRIL signaling, via the NF-kB pathway, blocks activation of the endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated initiator caspase 12. Thus, stromal cell-contact induced PI3K and APRIL-induced NF-kB signaling provide necessary and complementary signals to maintain bone marrow memory plasma cells.
patial hearing is of great importance in everyday life, today9s routine audiological test batteries and static test setups assess sound localization, discrimination and tracking abilities rudimentarily and thus provide only a limited interpretation of treatment outcomes regarding spatial hearing performance. To address this limitation, we designed a dynamic sound field test setup and evaluated the sound localization, discrimination and tracking performance of 12 normal-hearing subjects. During testing, participants provided feedback either through a touchpad or through eye tracking. In addition, the influence of head movement on sound-tracking performance was investigated. Our results show that tracking and discrimination performance was significantly better in the frontal azimuth than in the dorsal azimuth. Particularly good performance was observed in the backward direction across localization, discrimination and tracking tests. As expected, free head movement improved sound-tracking abilities. Furthermore, feedback via gaze detection led to larger tracking errors than feedback via the touchpad. We found statistically significant correlations between the static and dynamic tests, which favor the snapshot theory for auditory motion perception.
tation patterns have been found in many plants and animals, highlighting the genetic heterogeneity of species along their range of distribution. In the next decades, global warming must induce a change in the selective pressures that drive this adaptive variation, forcing a reshuffling of the underlying adaptive allele distributions. For species with low dispersion capacity and long generation time such as trees, the rapidity of the change could imped the migration of beneficial alleles and lower their capacity to track the changing environment. Identifying the main selective pressures driving the adaptive genetic variation is thus necessary when investigating species capacity to respond to global warming. In this study, we investigate the adaptive landscape of Fagus sylvatica along a gradient of populations in the French Alps. Using a ddRAD-seq approach, we identified 7,000 SNPs from 570 individuals across 36 different sites. An RDA-derived method allowed us to identify several SNPs that were strongly associated with climatic gradients; moreover, we defined the primary selective gradients along the natural populations of F. sylvatica in the Alps. Strong effects of elevation and humidity, which contrast north-western and south-eastern site, were found and were believed to be important drivers of genetic adaptation. Finally, simulations of future genetic landscapes that used these findings predicted a severe range contraction and a shift towards higher altitudes for F. sylvatica in the Alps and allowed to identify populations at risk, which could be helpful for future management plans.
nce of non-perceptual information on visual awareness has recently gained substantial interest. Here, we investigated a potential contribution of evidence from the motor system to visual awareness ratings using single-pulse Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (sp-TMS). We hypothesized that TMS-induced activation of motor cortex will increase the subjective awareness ratings as compared to sham stimulation. Additionally, we investigated whether TMS-induced motor evoked potentials (MEPs) could be treated as a measure of evidence accumulation resulting in behavioral response. Participants performed a visual identification task and rated their subjective experience with Perceptual Awareness Scale (PAS). During the task, we delivered sp-TMS and recorded MEPs with EMG placed on participants hand. Delivering sp-TMS to primary motor cortex resulted in higher average PAS ratings as compared to the control condition, but only in trials where stimulation was congruent with the response performed. Additionally, reaction times in the identification task were also higher in congruent trials. MEP amplitudes correlated with PAS ratings when response congruence was taken into account. We argue that activity in motor cortex influences visual awareness of the participants. Subsequently, MEP might serve as an indirect measure of both perceptual and non-perceptual evidence accumulated for visual awareness ratings. Finally, we conclude that the integration of additional information results in prolonged RTs in the identification task. Our results suggest that task-related motor activity influences visual awareness, extending the classical view on how visual awareness is shaped.
 of cytosolic mRNA translation is a key node for rapid adaptation to environmental stress conditions. In yeast and animals, phosphorylation of the -subunit of eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2 is the most thoroughly characterized event in regulating global translation under stress. In plants, the GCN2 kinase (General Control Non-derepressible-2) is the only known kinase for eIF2. GCN2 is activated under a variety of stresses including reactive oxygen species. Here we provide new evidence that the GCN2 kinase in Arabidopsis is also activated rapidly and in a light dependent manner by cold and salt treatments. These treatments alone did not repress global mRNA ribosome loading in a major way. The activation of GCN2 was attenuated by inhibitors of photosynthesis and antioxidants, suggesting that it is gated by the redox poise or the reactive oxygen status of the chloroplast. In keeping with these results, gcn2 mutant seedlings were more sensitive than wild type to both cold and salt in a root elongation assay. These data suggest that cold and salt stress may both affect the status of the cytosolic translation apparatus via the conserved GCN2-eIF2 module. The potential role of the GCN2 kinase pathway in the global repression of translation under abiotic stress will be discussed.
ocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) regulates the maturation, proliferation, and differentiation of precursor cells of neutrophilic granulocytes, and has been widely studied in several species. To investigate the function of variants of sheep GCSF (sGCSF), this study compared difference in their mRNA expression levels. Both the activity and mRNA expression level of GCSFv2 were higher than those of GCSFv1. Their sequences were aligned, which showed that they had the highest homology with bovine GCSF. Then, predicted ovine GCSF isoforms and their constant C-terminals were cloned and expressed, which were stably expressed in mammalian cells. After purification, all GCSF functions were different both  in vitro  and  in vivo , and the GCSF C-terminal was best. These results indicated that the ability to stimulate both the proliferation and differentiation of progenitor cells and to activate the maturation of neutrophils could be used for research of efficacious non-antibiotic protein drugs. Furthermore, GCSF can be used as candidate target of genetic breeding to specifically improve sheep immunity.
ipid signaling has been shown to serve crucial roles in mammals and plants, little is known about this process in filamentous fungi. Here we analyse the contribution of phospholipase D (PLD) and its product phosphatidic acid (PA) in hyphal morphogenesis and growth of  Epichlo festucae  and  Neurospora crassa , and in the establishment of a symbiotic interaction between  E. festucae  and  Lolium perenne . Growth of  E. festucae  and  N. crassa  PLD deletion strains in axenic culture, and for  E. festucae  in association with  L. perenne , were analysed by light-, confocal- and electron microscopy. Changes in PA distribution were analysed in  E. festucae  using a PA biosensor and the impact of these changes on endocytic recycling and superoxide production investigated. We found that  E. festucae  PldB and the  N. crassa  ortholog, PLA-7, are required for polarized growth, cell fusion and ascospore development, whereas PldA/PLA-8 are dispensable for these functions. Exogenous addition of PA rescues the cell-fusion phenotype in  E. festucae . PldB is also crucial for  E. festucae  to establish a symbiotic association with  L. perenne . This study identifies a new component of the cell-cell communication and cell fusion signaling network that controls hyphal morphogenesis and growth in filamentous fungi.
 14-3-3 proteins are recognized as mediators of signal transduction and function in both development and stress response. However, their functions have not been reported in the C4 crop foxtail millet. Here, phylogenetic analysis categorized foxtail millet 14-3-3s (SiGRFs) into ten discrete groups (Clusters I to X). Transcriptome and qPCR analyses showed that all the SiGRFs responded to at least one abiotic stress. All but one SiGRF-overexpressing (OE) Arabidopsis thaliana line (SiGRF1) exhibited insensitivity to abiotic stresses during seed germination and seedling growth. Compared with the Col-0 wild-type, SiGRF1-OEs had slightly lower germination rates and smaller leaves. However, flowering time of SiGRF1-OEs occurred earlier than that of Col-0 under high-salt stress. Interaction of SiGRF1 with a foxtail millet E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (SiRNF1/2) indicates that the proteinase system might hydrolyse SiGRF1. Further investigation showed that SiGRF1 localized in the cytoplasm, and its gene was ubiquitously expressed in various tissues throughout various developmental stages. Additionally, flowering-related genes, WRKY71, FLOWERING LOCUS T, LEAFY and FRUITFULL, in SiGRF1-OEs exhibited considerably higher expression levels than those in Col-0 under salinity-stressed conditions. Results suggest that SiGRF1 hastens flowering, thereby providing a means for foxtail millet to complete its life cycle and avoid further salt stress.
s are key regulators of developmental processes, including those involved in mammary gland development. We previously demonstrated that the atypical chemokine receptor, ACKR2, contributes to control of ductal epithelial branching in the developing mammary gland by regulating macrophage dynamics. ACKR2 is a chemokine-scavenging receptor, which mediates its effects through collaboration with inflammatory chemokine receptors (iCCRs). Here we reveal that ACKR2, and the iCCR CCR1, reciprocally regulate branching morphogenesis in the mammary gland, whereby stromal ACKR2 modulates levels of the shared ligand CCL7 to control the movement of a key population of CCR1-expressing macrophages to the ductal epithelium. In addition estrogen, which is essential for ductal elongation during puberty, upregulates CCR1 expression on macrophages. The age at which girls develop breasts is decreasing, which raises the risk of diseases including breast cancer. This study presents a previously unknown mechanism controlling the rate of mammary gland development during puberty and highlights potential therapeutic targets.
lect is a frequent and disabling consequence of right brain damage. Traditional paper-and-pencil tests of neglect have limitations in sensitivity and ecological validity. The Baking Tray Task (BTT), instead, approaches real-life situations, because it requires participants to place 16 physical objects on a board. The number of objects placed on the left and right portions of the board provides a clinical index of visual neglect. Here we present E-TOKEN, a technology-enhanced version of the BTT. E- TOKEN automatically determines the object locations on the board, and also records the sequence and timing of their placement. We used E-TOKEN to test 9 patients with right hemisphere damage, and compared their performance with that obtained by 115 healthy participants. To this end, we developed a new method of analysis of participants9 performance, based on the use of the convex hull described by the objects on the board. This measure provides an estimate of the portion of space processed by each participant, and can effectively discriminate neglect patients from patients without neglect. E-TOKEN allows clinicians to assess visuospatial performance by using a convenient, fast, and relatively automatized procedure, that patients can even perform at home to follow-up the effects of rehabilitation.
ttp://www.iqtree.org) is a user-friendly and widely used software package for phylogenetic inference using maximum likelihood. Since the release of version 1 in 2014, we have continuously expanded IQ-TREE to integrate a plethora of new models of sequence evolution and efficient computational approaches of phylogenetic inference to deal with genomic data. Here, we describe notable features of IQ-TREE version 2 and highlight the key advantages over other software.
euronal microtubule (MT) associated protein of significant interest due to its association with several neurodegenerative disorders. Tau9s intrinsic disorder and the dynamic nature of its interactions with tubulin and MTs make its structural characterization challenging. Here we use an environmentally sensitive fluorophore as a site-specific probe of tau bound to soluble tubulin. Comparison of our results with recently published tau:MT cryo-EM model reveals structural similarities between tubulin- and MT-bound tau. Analysis of residues across the repeat regions reveal a hierarchy in tubulin occupancy, which may be relevant to tau9s ability to differentiate between tubulin and MTs. As binding to soluble tubulin is a critical first step in MT polymerization, our characterization of the structural features of tau in dynamic, fuzzy tau:tubulin assemblies advances our understanding of how tau functions in the cell and how function may be disrupted in disease.
tal stuttering is a childhood onset neurodevelopmental disorder with an unclear etiology. Subtle changes in brain structure and function are present in both children and adults who stutter. It is a highly heritable disorder, and up to 12-20% of stuttering cases may carry a mutation in one of four genes involved in mannose-6-phosphate mediated protein intracellular trafficking. To better understand the relationship between genetic factors and brain structural changes, we used gene expression data from the Allen Institute for Brain Science (AIBS) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to investigate the spatial correspondence between gene expression patterns and differences in gray matter volume (GMV) between children with persistent stuttering (n=26, 87 scans) and their fluent peers (n=44, 139 scans). We found that expression patterns of two stuttering-related genes (GNPTG and NAGPA) in the brain exhibit a strong positive spatial correlation with the magnitude of GMV differences between groups. Further gene set enrichment analyses revealed that genes whose expression was highly correlated with the GMV differences were enriched for glycolysis and oxidative metabolism in mitochondria. Although the results are correlational and cannot inform us about underlying casual mechanisms, our results suggest a possibility that regions with high expression level of genes associated with stuttering may be particularly vulnerable to the effect of alterations in these genes. This effect may be further exacerbated by the relatively high energy utilization in those brain during the period of a sharp increase in brain energy utilization, which coincides with a period of rapid language development and the onset of stuttering during childhood.
de-RNA libraries have been iteratively optimised to provide increasingly efficient reagents although their large size is a barrier for some applications. We designed a minimal genome-wide human CRISPR-Cas9 library (MinLibCas9), optimised by mining existing large-scale gene loss-of-function datasets, resulting in a greater than 46% reduction in size compared to other libraries while preserving assay sensitivity and specificity. MinLibCas9 improves the efficiency of CRISPR-Cas9 loss-of-function screens and expands their application to complex models and assays.
 mutation yields truncated, dysfunctional product proteins, leading to loss-of-function, genetic disorders or even death. Frameshift mutations have been considered as mostly harmful and of little importance for the molecular evolution of proteins. Frameshift protein sequences, encoded by the alternative reading frames of a coding gene, have been therefore considered as meaningless. However, existing studies had shown that frameshift genes/proteins are widely existing and sometimes functional. It is puzzling how a frameshift kept its structure and functionality while its amino-acid sequence is changed substantially. We revealed here that the protein sequences of the frameshifts are highly conservative when compared with the wild-type protein sequence, and the similarities among the three protein sequences encoded in the three reading frames of a coding gene are defined mainly by the genetic code. In the standard genetic code, amino acid substitutions assigned to frameshift codon substitutions are far more conservative than those assigned to random substitutions. The frameshift tolerability of the standard genetic code ranks in the top 1.0-5.0% of all possible genetic codes, showing that the genetic code is optimal in terms of frameshift tolerance. In some species, the shiftability is further enhanced at gene- or genome-level by a biased usage of codons and codon pairs, in which frameshift-tolerable codons/codon pairs are overrepresented in their genomes.
the center of pressure (CoP) through modulation of foot placement and ankle moments (CoP-mechanism) cause accelerations of the center of mass (CoM) that can be used to stabilize gait. An additional mechanism that can be used to stabilize gait, is the counter-rotation mechanism, i.e., changing the angular momentum of segments around the CoM to change the direction of the ground reaction force. The relative contribution of these mechanisms to the control of the CoM is unknown. Therefore, we aimed to determine the relative contribution of these mechanisms to control the CoM in the anteroposterior (AP) direction during a normal step and the first recovery step after perturbation in healthy adults. Nineteen healthy subjects walked on a split-belt treadmill and received unexpected belt acceleration perturbations of various magnitudes applied immediately after right heel-strike. Full-body kinematic and force plate data were obtained to calculate the contributions of the CoP-mechanism and the counter-rotation mechanism to control the CoM. We found that the CoP-mechanism contributed to corrections of the CoM acceleration after the AP perturbations, while the counter-rotation mechanism actually contributed to CoM acceleration in the direction of the perturbation, but only in the initial phases of the first step after the perturbation. The counter-rotation mechanism appeared to prevent interference with the gait pattern, rather than using it to control the CoM after the perturbation. Understanding the mechanisms used to stabilize gait may have implications for the design of therapeutic interventions that aim to decrease fall incidence.
man language evolve from earlier forms of communication? One way to address this question is to compare prelinguistic human vocal behavior with nonhuman primate calls. Here, an important finding has been that, prior to speech, human infant vocal behavior exhibits functional flexibility, the capacity of producing protophones that are not tied to one specific function. Nonhuman primate vocal behavior, by contrast, is comparably inflexible, with different call types tied to specific functions. Our research challenges the generality of this claim, with new findings of flexible vocal behavior in infant chimpanzees. We used artificial intelligence consisting of automated feature extraction and supervised learning algorithms to analyze grunt and whimper vocalizations from free-ranging infants during their first year of life. We found that grunt production was highly flexible occurring in positive, neutral and negative circumstances, as already shown in human infants. We also found acoustic variants of grunts produced in different affective contexts, suggesting gradation within this vocal category. By contrast, the second most common call type of infant chimpanzees, the whimpers, was produced in only one affective context in line with standard models of nonhuman primate vocal behavior. We concluded that the most common chimpanzee vocalization, the grunt, qualifies as functionally flexible, suggesting that evolution of vocal functional flexibility occurred before the split between the Homo and Pan lineages.
s of intensive meditation practices on the functional and structural organization of the human brain have been addressed by a growing number of neuroscientific studies. However, the different modulations of meditation expertise and of ageing, in the underlying brain areas and networks, have not yet been fully elucidated. These effects should be distinguished in order to clarify how long-term meditation can modulate the connectivity between brain areas. To address this issue, we tested whether meditation expertise and age can be predicted from the multivariate pattern of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging connectivity, in Theravada Buddhist monks with long-term practice in two different meditation forms: Focused Attention (FA) and Open Monitoring (OM). We found that functional connectivity patterns in both meditation forms can be used to predict expertise and age of long-term meditators. Our findings suggest that meditation expertise is associated with meditation-specific brain networks modulations, while age-related modifications are general and independent from the meditation type. Specifically, expertise modulated patterns during FA meditation include nodes and connections implicated in focusing, sustaining and monitoring attention, while the predictive patterns during OM meditation include nodes associated with cognitive and affective monitoring. Thus, the two forms of meditation may differentially contribute to counteract the effects of neurocognitive decline with ageing by neuroplasticity of brain networks.
t heat treatment stimulates desiccation and browning of outer scales of onion (Allium cepa. L) bulb to dry papery skins. Inner scales resist the heat treatment, as evidenced by high moisture levels. During heating, inner scales showed increasing soluble sugar levels followed by higher osmolarity, vs. a dramatic decrease in both in the outer scales. Exogenous feeding of outer scales with sucrose, glucose or fructose solutions before heat treatment reduced water loss during heating, suggesting a role for soluble sugars in water retention and therefore, heat tolerance. Vacuolar invertase (VInv) is a key enzyme regulating the levels of sucrose, glucose and fructose in plant tissue. VInv-silencing in potato plants prevented the accumulation of reducing sugars in heated leaves, increasing water loss. In onion outer scales, VInv activity increased during heating but reducing sugars decreased, possibly due to their rapid metabolism during scale senescence to form skin. Transcriptomic analysis demonstrated upregulation of genes involved in lignin biosynthesis and secondary cell-wall formation in outer scales during heat exposure, and upregulation of genes involved in energy-related pathways in inner scales. This study reveals the dual role of soluble sugars in different onion scales, as osmoprotectants or building blocks, under heat stress.
ly enlarged noses of male proboscis monkeys (Nasalis larvatus) are prominent adornments, and a sexually selected male masculine trait, as recently revealed by the significant correlations among nose, body, and testis sizes and the clear association between nose size and the number of females in a male9s harem. However, till date, the analyses of other common male traits, i.e., canines, are lacking. Whereas male nose size had a positive correlation with body size, we unexpectedly found a negative correlation between body and canine sizes. Similar relationship between nose and body size was observed in females, whereas only a weak correlation was noted between canine and body size. We explain this by an interaction between sexual and natural selection. Larger noses in males may interfere with the use of canines, thereby reducing their effectiveness as weapons. However, longer canines are opposed by natural selection because they impose a larger gape upon its bearer and reduce foraging efficiency, particularly in folivores. The difference between the sexes regarding the regression intercept for body size vs. canine size was significant, although the difference of the slopes was insignificant, consistent with the hypothesis that the nose interferes with the effectiveness of canines as weapons in males but not in females. Moreover, a mathematical simulation supported our prediction. This unique case of decoupling of body and canine size reveals that large canines carry an ecological cost. It also raises interesting questions regarding the developmental mechanism that produces a negative correlation among adult body, nose size, and canine size.
 AND AIMS: Alagille syndrome, like several other liver diseases, is characterized by malformation of lumenized structures, such as the circulatory or biliary systems. Liver architecture has typically been studied through 2D sections and, more recently, using thick tissue sections combined with immunofluorescence. We aimed to develop a robust method to image, digitalize and quantify 3D architecture of the biliary and vascular systems in tandem. METHODS: The biliary and portal vein trees of the mouse liver were injected with Microfil resin, followed by microCT scanning. Tomographic data was segmented and analyzed using a MATLAB script we wrote to investigate length, volume, tortuosity, branching, and the relation between the vascular and biliary systems. Double resin casting micro computed tomography (DUCT) was applied to a mouse model for Alagille syndrome ( Jag1 Ndr/Ndr   mice), in which the biliary system is absent at postnatal stages, but regenerates by adulthood. Phenotypes discovered using DUCT were validated with cumbersome consecutive liver sections from mouse and human liver including patients with Alagille syndrome. RESULTS: DUCT revealed tortuous bile ducts either placed further from portal veins, or ectopically traversing the parenchyma and connecting two portal areas, in  Jag1 Ndr/Ndr   mice. Furthermore, bile ducts either ended abruptly, or branched independently of portal vein branching, with bifurcations placed hilar or peripheral to portal vein branches. The branching defects, parenchymal bile ducts, and blunt endings were confirmed in patient samples. CONCLUSION: DUCT is a powerful technique, which provides computerized 3D reconstruction of casted networks. It exposes and quantifies previously unknown vascular and biliary phenotypes in mouse models, revealing new phenotypes in patients.
hila obscura species group shows dramatic variation in karyotype, including transitions among sex chromosomes. Members of the affinis and pseudoobscura subgroups contain a neo-X chromosome (a fusion of the X with an autosome), and it was shown that ancestral Y genes of Drosophila have become autosomal in species that contain the neo-X. Detailed analysis in species of the pseudoobscura subgroup revealed a translocation of ancestral Y genes to the small dot chromosome of that group. Here, we show that the Y-dot translocation is restricted to the pseudoobscura subgroup, and translocation of Y genes in the affinis subgroup followed a different route. We find that most ancestral Y genes moved independently to autosomal or X-linked locations in different taxa of the affinis subgroup, and we propose a dynamic model of sex chromosome formation and turnover in the obscura species group. Our results show that Y genes can find unique paths to escape an unfavorable genomic environment.
n genome sequencing have identified over 1300 mutations in the SCN1A sodium channel gene that result in genetic epilepsies. However, how individual mutations within SCN1A produce seizures remains elusive for most mutations. Previous work from our lab has shown that the K1270T (KT) mutation, which is linked to GEFS+ (Genetic Epilepsy with Febrile Seizure plus) in humans, causes reduced firing of GABAergic neurons in a Drosophila knock-in model. To examine the effect of this mutation in mammals, we introduced the equivalent KT mutation into the mouse Scn1a (Scn1aKT) gene using CRISPR/Cas9. Mouse lines carrying this mutation were examined in two widely used genetic backgrounds, C57BL/6NJ and 129X1/SvJ. In both backgrounds, homozygous mutants had spontaneous seizures and died by postnatal day 23. There was no difference in the lifespan of mice heterozygous for the mutation in either background when compared to wild-type littermates up to 6 months. Heterozygous mutants had heat-induced seizures at ~42 degree Celsius, a temperature that did not induce seizures in wild-type littermates. In acute hippocampal slices, current-clamp recordings revealed a significant depolarized shift in action potential threshold and reduced action potential amplitude in parvalbumin-expressing inhibitory interneurons in Scn1aKT/+ mice. There was no change in the firing properties of excitatory CA1 pyramidal neurons. Our results indicate that Scn1aKT/+ mice develop seizures, and impaired action potential firing of inhibitory interneurons in Scn1aKT/+ mice may produce hyperexcitability in the hippocampus.
e behavior in the binding of ligands to a protein is often viewed as a complex phenomenon where conformational changes induced by the binding of the first ligand leads to tighter binding of subsequent ligands. We revisit the ligand-dependent activation of dimeric transcription factors and show that this process may appear cooperative even when it results from independent ligand binding events. This effect is further accentuated through binding of the activated transcription factor to its cognate operator site on the DNA, where we demonstrate that cooperative activation is a stable fixed point. Our analysis nicely accounts for the apparent co-operativity inherent in the biological activity of many dimeric transcription factors.
s time their movements to take advantage of behaviorally meaningful intervals is not well understood, especially in the supra-second timescale. It has been proposed that the appearance of a cue signaling the beginning of an interval triggers reproducible self-sustained dynamics across ensembles of neurons (an emergent population clock) which eventually lead to the execution of a well-timed behavioral response. Thus, after interval onset, motor timing should be largely independent of the exact structure of the environment or the presence of external noise (unpredictable variability in the environment).To test this hypothesis, we used a task in which rats could obtain a reward at the front of a motorized treadmill, if they approached it after a fixed time interval following trial initiation. Most animals took advantage of the treadmill length and its moving direction to develop, by trial-and-error, a unique motor routine whose execution resulted in the precise timing of their reward approaches.Noticeably, when proficient animals occasionally failed to follow this routine, the timing of their reward approaches was systematically poor.In a second step, we trained naive animals in modified versions of the task specifically designed to prevent the development of this motor strategy. Compared to rats trained in the first protocol, these animals never reached a comparable level of timing accuracy.Our results support the idea that well-timed behaviors emerge from the ability of animals to develop motor routines adapted to the structure of their environment.They also suggest that self-sustained neuronal activity alone may not be sufficient to support motor timing, at least in the supra-second timescale.
shifts between the extremes of stability and collapse are hallmarks of ecological systems. These shifts are limited by and change with biodiversity, complexity, and the topology and hierarchy of interactions. Most ecological research has focused on identifying conditions for a system to shift from stability to any degree of instability, species abundances do not return to exact same values after perturbation. Real ecosystems likely have a continuum of shifting between stability and collapse that depends on the specifics of how the interactions are structured, as well as the type and degree of disturbance due to environmental change. Here we map boundaries for the extremes of strict stability and collapse. In between these boundaries, we find an intermediate regime that consists of single-species extinctions, which we call the Extinction Continuum. We also develop a metric that locates the position of the system within the Extinction Continuum, thus quantifying proximity to stability or collapse, in terms of ecologically measurable quantities such as growth rates and interaction strengths. Furthermore, we provide analytical and numerical techniques for estimating our new metric. We show that our metric does an excellent job of capturing the system behaviour in comparison with other existing methods, such as May9s stability criteria or critical slowdown. Our metric should thus enable deeper insights about how to classify real systems in terms of their overall dynamics and their limits of stability and collapse.
f new avenues to explain, predict, and treat pathophysiological conditions during aging, research on sleep and aging has flourished. Despite the great scientific potential to pinpoint mechanistic pathways between sleep, aging, and pathology, only little attention has been paid to the suitability of analytic procedures applied to study these interrelations. On the basis of electrophysiological sleep and structural brain data of healthy younger and older adults, we identify, illustrate, and resolve methodological core challenges in the study of sleep and aging. We demonstrate potential biases in common analytic approaches when applied to older populations. We argue that uncovering age-dependent alterations in the physiology of sleep requires the development of age-fair and individualized analytic procedures that filter out age-independent inter individual differences. Age-adapted methodological approaches are thus required to foster the development of valid and reliable biomarkers of age-associated cognitive pathologies.
lar inclusions rich in alpha-synuclein are a hallmark of several neuropathological diseases including Parkinson9s disease (PD). We here report two new polymorphic atomic structures of alpha-synuclein fibrils termed polymorphs 2a and 2b, at 3.0 A and 3.4 A resolution, respectively . These polymorphs show a radically different structure compared to previously reported polymorphs. The new structures have a 10 nm fibril diameter and are composed of two protofilaments which interact via intermolecular salt-bridges between amino acids K45, E57 (polymorph 2a) or E46 (polymorph 2b). The non-amyloid component (NAC) region of alpha-synuclein is fully buried by previously non-described interactions with the N-terminus. A hydrophobic cleft, the location of familial PD mutation sites, and the nature of the protofilament interface now invite to formulate hypotheses about fibril formation, growth and stability.
ing the contribution of cognitive processes and their underlying neurophysiological signals to behavioral phenomena has been a key objective in recent neuroscience research. Using a diffusion-model framework, we investigated to what extent well-established correlates of spatial attention in the electro-encephalogram contribute to behavioral performance in an auditory free-field sound-localization task. Younger and older participants were instructed to indicate the horizontal position of a pre-defined target among three simultaneously presented distractors. The central question of interest was whether posterior alpha lateralization and  amplitudes of the anterior contralateral N2 subcomponent (N2ac) predict sound localization performance (accuracy, mean reaction time) and/or diffusion model parameters (drift rate, boundary separation, non-decision time). Two age groups were compared to explore whether in older adults, who struggle with multi-speaker environments, the brain-behavior relationship would differ from younger adults. Regression analyses revealed that N2ac amplitudes predicted drift rate and accuracy, whereas alpha lateralization was not related to behavioral or diffusion modeling parameters. This was true irrespective of age. The results indicate that a more efficient attentional filtering and selection of information within an auditory scene, reflected by increased N2ac amplitudes, was associated with a higher speed of information uptake (drift rate) and better localization performance (accuracy), while the underlying response criteria (threshold separation), mean reaction times, and non-decisional processes remained unaffected. The lack of a behavioral correlate of post-stimulus alpha power lateralization constrast the well-established notion that pre-stimulus alpha power reflects a functionally relevant attentional mechanism. This highlights the importance of distinguishing anticipatory from post-stimulus alpha power modulations.
y attending to relevant information while blocking out distractors is crucial forgoal-directed behavior, yet with advancing age, deficits emerge in attentional selectivity.Decrements in attention have been associated with altered noradrenergic activity inanimals. However, research linking noradrenergic functioning to attention in aginghumans is scarce, likely reflecting long-standing methodological challenges in non-invasive assessments. We studied whether age-related differences in the noradrenergicsystem predict differences in attention. We measured pupil dilation, a non-invasivemarker of phasic norepinephrine (NE) release, while concurrently recording theelectroencephalogram (EEG), of male younger (N=39; 25.2+/-3.2 years) and older adults(N=38; 70.6+/-2.7 years). Arousal was triggered on a trial-by-trial basis using fear-conditioned (CS+) stimuli. During conditioning, pupil and EEG markers related toheightened NE activity were identified. Afterwards, in a dichotic listening task,participants were cued to direct attention to either the left or right ear while highlysimilar syllable pairs were presented simultaneously to both ears.During the dichotic listening task, presentation of fear-conditioned stimuli reinstated theacquired fear response, as reflected in pupil and EEG alpha-beta-band responses.Critically, pupil dilation to CS+ was correlated with stronger EEG alpha-betadesynchronization, suggesting a common dependence on NE release. On a behaviorallevel, stronger arousal reactions were associated with better attention. In particular,structural equation modeling revealed that the responsiveness of the NE system isassociated with attention on a latent construct level, measured by several indicator tasks.Overall, our results suggest that the responsiveness of the NE system supports attentionacross the lifespan.
text of climate changes, water availability is expected to severely decline. Consequently, there is a need to predict mortality of woody species, especially to find a physiological threshold to drought-induced mortality. Lavender species (Lavandula angustifolia and Lavandula x intermedia) which are important crops of the Mediterranean region are affected by a decline, notably caused by successive intense drought events. Lavender response to extreme drought events was monitored using continuous stem diameter measurements. Water potential, stomatal conductance, loss of xylem hydraulic conductivity and electrolyte leakage were also measured during desiccation, and recovery was evaluated after rewatering. Two parameters computed from stem diameter variations were related to stress intensity and resilience to stress: PLD (Percentage Loss of Diameter) and stem PLRC (Percentage Loss of Rehydration Capacity of the stem), respectively. We showed that plants did not recover when the PLD reached its maximal value (PLDmax) which was 21.27  0.57% in both lavender species and whatever the growing conditions. This point of no return was associated with a high level of cell lysis evaluated by electrolyte leakage, and occurred far after the xylem hydraulic failure. We discussed the relevance of PLDmax as a threshold for drought-induced mortality and its physiological significance, in relation to the mortality mechanisms.
in the gene encoding the sodium channel Nav1.5 cause various cardiac arrhythmias. This variety may arise from different determinants of Nav1.5 expression between cardiomyocyte domains. At the lateral membrane and T-tubules, Nav1.5 localization and function remain insufficiently characterized. We used novel single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM) and modeling to define nanoscale features of Nav1.5 localization and distribution at the lateral membrane, groove, and T-tubules in wild-type, dystrophin-deficient (mdx) mice, and mice expressing C-terminally truncated Nav1.5 (SIV). We show that Nav1.5 organizes as distinct clusters in the groove and T-tubules which density and distribution partially depend on SIV and dystrophin. We found that overall reduction in Nav1.5 expression in mdx and SIV cells results in a non-uniform re-distribution with Nav1.5 being specifically reduced at the groove of SIV and increased in T-tubules of mdx cardiomyocytes. Nav1.5 mutations may therefore site-specifically affect Nav1.5 localization and distribution depending on site-specific interacting proteins.
l networks have recently enabled spectacular progress in predicting protein structures, as demonstrated by DeepMind9s winning entry with Alphafold at the latest Critical Assessment of Structure Prediction competition (CASP13). The best protein prediction pipeline leverages intermolecular distance predictions to assemble a final protein model, but this distance prediction network has not been published. Here, we make a trained implementation of this network available to the broader scientific community. We also benchmark its predictive power in the related task of contact prediction against the CASP13 contact prediction winner TripletRes. Access to ProSPr will enable other labs to build on best in class protein distance predictions and to engineer superior protein reconstruction methods.
ural environment, the brain needs to combine signals from multiple sensory modalities into a coherent percept. While spatial attention guides perceptual decisions by prioritizing processing of signals that are task-relevant, expectations encode the event probability over space. Previous studies have shown that behavioral effects of spatial attention generalize across sensory modalities. However, because they manipulated spatial attention as signal probability over space, these studies could not dissociate attention and expectation. In two experiments, we orthogonally manipulated spatial attention (i.e., task-relevance) and expectation (i.e., signal probability) selectively in one sensory modality (i.e., primary) (experiment 1: audition, experiment 2: vision) and assessed their effects on primary and secondary sensory modalities where attention and expectation were held constant. Our results show behavioral effects of spatial attention and expectation that are comparable for audition or vision as primary modalities; yet, spatial expectations were formed more slowly in audition. Critically, spatial attention and expectation affected responses more strongly in the primary modality where they were manipulated and generalized to the secondary modality only in an attenuated fashion. Collectively, our results suggest that both spatial attention and expectation rely on modality-specific and multisensory mechanisms.
ain representation of conceptual knowledge vary as a function of processing goals remains unclear. We hypothesized that the brain representation of semantic categories is shaped by the depth of processing. Participants were presented with visual words during functional MRI. During shallow processing, participants had to read the items. During deep processing, they had to mentally simulate the features associated with the words. Multivariate classification, informational connectivity and encoding models were used to reveal how the depth of processing determines the brain representation of word meaning. Decoding accuracy in putative substrates of the semantic network was enhanced when the depth processing was high, and the brain representations were more generalizable in semantic space relative to shallow processing contexts. This pattern was observed even in association areas in inferior frontal and parietal cortex. Deep information processing during mental simulation also increased the informational connectivity within key substrates of the semantic network. To further examine the properties of the words encoded in brain activity, we compared computer vision models - associated with the image referents of the words - and word embeddings. Computer vision models explained more variance of the brain responses across multiple areas of the semantic network. These results indicate that the brain representation of word meaning is highly malleable by the depth of processing imposed by the task, rely on access to visual representations and are indeed highly distributed, including prefrontal areas thought to be primarily implicated in semantic control rather than representation.
ian clock of Arabidopsis thaliana controls many physiological and molecular processes, allowing plants to anticipate daily changes in its environment. However, a detailed understanding of how oscillations in mRNA levels are connected to oscillations in post-transcriptional processes, such as splicing, has remained a challenge. Here we applied a combined approach of deep transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics tools to identify novel circadian regulated genes and splicing events. Using a stringent approach, we identified 109 intron retention, 35 exon skipping, 42 alternative 59 splice site usage, and 63 alternative 39 splice site usage events under circadian regulation. We also found 24 and 1765 novel alternative exonic and intronic events. Depletion of the circadian regulated splicing factor SPF30 homolog, resulted in the disruption of a subset of clock controlled splicing events, mainly at CT16. Altogether, our global circadian RNAseq coupled with an in silico, event centered, splicing analysis tool offers a new approach for studying the interplay between the circadian clock and the splicing machinery at a global scale. The identification of a large number of circadian regulated splicing events, broadens our current understanding of the level of control that the circadian clock has over this posttranscriptional regulatory layer.
lobal warming is predicted to significantly reduce the capacity of marine primary producers for long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) synthesis. Primary consumers such as harpacticoid copepods (Crustacea) might mitigate the resulting adverse effects on the food web by increased LC-PUFA bioconversion. Here, we present a high-quality  de novo  transcriptome assembly of the copepod  Platychelipus littoralis , exposed to changes in both temperature (+3C) and dietary LC-PUFA availability. Using this transcriptome, we detected multiple transcripts putatively encoding for LC-PUFA-bioconverting front-end fatty acid desaturases and elongases, and performed phylogenetic analyses to identify their relationship with sequences of other (crustacean) taxa. While temperature affected the absolute fatty acid concentrations in copepods, LC-PUFA levels remained unaltered even when copepods were fed a LC-PUFA-deficient diet. While this suggests plasticity of  LC-PUFA bioconversion within  P. littoralis , none of the putative front-end desaturase or elongase transcripts were differentially expressed under the applied treatments. Nevertheless, the transcriptome presented here provides a sound basis for future ecophysiological research on harpacticoid copepods.
eceptors of nocturnal mammals display a striking inversion of nuclear architecture, which has been proposed as an evolutionary adaptation to dark environments. However, the nature of visual benefits and underlying mechanisms remains unclear. It is widely assumed that improvements in nocturnal vision would depend on maximization of photon capture, at the expense of image detail. Here we show that retinal optical quality improves 2-fold during terminal development, which, confirmed by a mouse model, happens due to nuclear inversion. We further reveal that improved retinal contrast-transmission, rather than photon-budget or resolution, leads to enhanced contrast sensitivity under low light condition. Our findings therefore add functional significance to a prominent exception of nuclear organization and establish retinal contrast-transmission as a decisive determinant of mammalian visual perception.
ung function is an indicator of obstructive pulmonary disease and may be a consequence of cigarette smoking, making it challenging to disentangle its role in lung cancer etiology. We investigated the shared genetic basis of pulmonary dysfunction and lung cancer susceptibility using genome-wide data from the UK Biobank (&amp;gt;370,000 individuals) and the International Lung Cancer Consortium (29,266 cases, 56,450 controls). We observed strong genetic correlations between lung cancer and reduced forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV 1 : r g =0.098, p=2.310 -8 ) and the ratio of FEV1 to forced vital capacity (FEV 1 /FVC: r g =0.137, p=2.010 -12 ). In Mendelian randomization analyses reduced FEV1 was associated with risk of squamous cell carcinoma (odds ratio (OR)=1.51, 95% confidence intervals: 1.21-1.88), while reduced FEV 1 /FVC increased risk of adenocarcinoma (OR=1.17, 1.01-1.35) and lung cancer in never smokers (OR=1.56, 1.05-2.30). These results support a causal role of lung impairment in lung cancer etiology. Integrative analyses of pulmonary function instruments, including 73 newly discovered variants, revealed significant effects on lung tissue gene expression and implicated immune-related pathways in mediating the effects on lung cancer susceptibility.
hogenesis requires the integration of multiple musculoskeletal tissues with the nervous system. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) physiology is important for development and homeostasis of the central nervous system and its disruption has been linked to scoliosis in zebrafish [1, 2]. Suspended in the CSF is an enigmatic glycoprotein thread called the Reissner fiber, which is secreted from the subcomissural organ (SCO) in the brain and extends caudally through the central canal to where it terminates at the base of the spinal cord. In zebrafish,  scospondin  null mutants are unable to assemble the Reissner fiber and fail to extend a straight body axis during embryonic development [3]. Here, we describe zebrafish hypomorphic missense alleles, which assemble the Reissner fiber and straighten the body axis during early embryonic development, yet progressively lose the fiber, concomitant with the emergence of body curvature, alterations in neuronal gene expression, and scoliosis in adults. Using an endogenously tagged  scospondin-GFP  zebrafish knock-in line, we directly visualized Reissner fiber dynamics during the normal development and during the progression of scoliosis, and demonstrate that the Reissner fiber is critical for the morphogenesis of the spine. Our study establishes a framework for future investigations of mechanistic roles of the Reissner fiber including its dynamic properties, molecular interactions, and how these processes are involved in the regulation of spine morphogenesis and scoliosis.
s of ecological theory rely on the analysis of invasion processes, and general approaches exist to understand the early stages of an invasion. However, predicting the long-term transformations of communities following an invasion remains a challenging endeavour. We propose an analytical method to predict whether these impacts can be large, as a function of community structure and invader dynamical characteristics, applicable to a wide class of dynamical models. Our approach reveals that short-term invasion success and long-term consequences are two independent axes of variation controlled by different properties of both invader and resident community. Whether a species can invade is controlled by its invasion fitness, which depends on environmental conditions and direct interactions with resident species. But whether this invasion will cause significant transformations, such as extinctions or a regime shift, depends on a specific measure of indirect feedbacks that may involve the entire resident community. Using this metric, we investigate how the complexity, specialization and asymmetry of invader-resident and resident-resident interactions may affect the severity of invasion impacts. Our approach applies to arbitrarily complex communities, from few competing phenotypes to large nonlinear food webs, and hints at new questions to ask as part of any invasion analysis.
crobiota influences the development and homeostasis of the mammalian immune system, can alter immune cell compositions in mice, and is associated with responses to immunotherapy that rely on the activity of peripheral immune cells. Still, our understanding of how the microbiota modulates circulatory immune cells remains limited, particularly in humans where a lack of manipulative experiments makes inference challenging. Here we overcome this challenge by studying hundreds of hospitalized---and closely monitored---bone marrow transplantation patients as they recover from chemotherapy-induced immune ablation. This aggressive treatment causes large shifts in both circulatory immune cell and microbiota populations, allowing the relationships between the two to be studied simultaneously over time with unprecedented resolution. We analyzed daily changes in white blood cell counts from 2,235 patients, and 10,680 longitudinal fecal microbiota samples to identify bacterial genera consistently associated with those changes. Bayesian inference and validation across different patient cohorts revealed consistent associations between intestinal bacteria and peripheral immune cell dynamics in the context of immunomodulatory medications, clinical metadata and homeostatic feedbacks between peripheral immune cells. The quantification of validated microbiota associations enabled us to contrast the potency of fermentatively active, obligate anaerobic bacteria with that of medications with known immunomodulatory mechanism, and this way estimate the microbiota potential to alter peripheral immune cell dynamics directly in patients. Our analysis establishes and quantifies the link between the intestinal microbiota and immune cell dynamics in humans, with implications for microbiota-driven modulation of immunity and immunotherapies that rely on circulatory immune cells.
ses using next generation sequencing is a powerful strategy for studying microbiota; however, it cannot clarify the role of individual microbes within microbiota. To know which cell expresses what gene is important for elucidation of the individual cell9s function in microbiota. In this report, we developed novel fluorescence  in situ  hybridization (FISH) procedure using RNase-H-assisted rolling circle amplification to visualize mRNA of interest in microbial cells without reverse transcription. Our results show that this method is applicable to both gram-negative and gram-positive microbes without any noise from DNA, and it is possible to visualize the target mRNA expression directly at the single-cell level. Therefore, our procedure, when combined with data of meta-analyses, can help to understand the role of individual microbes in the microbiota.
erature on the differential role of genes within networks distinguishes core from peripheral genes. If previous works have shown contrasting features between them, whether such categorization matters for phenotype prediction remains to be studied.We sequenced RNA in a Populus nigra collection and built co-expression networks to define core and peripheral genes. We found that cores were more differentiated between populations than peripherals while being less variable, suggesting that they have been constrained through potentially divergent selection. We also showed that while cores were overrepresented in a subset of genes deemed important for trait prediction, they did not systematically predict better than peripherals or even random genes. Our work is the first attempt to assess the importance of co-expression network connectivity in phenotype prediction. While highly connected core genes appear to be important, they do not bear enough information to systematically predict better quantitative traits than other gene sets.
 the timing of incoming information allows the brain to optimize information processing in dynamic environments. Behaviorally, temporal expectations have been shown to facilitate processing of events at expected time points, such as sounds that coincide with the beat in musical rhythm. Yet, temporal expectations can develop based on different forms of structure in the environment, not just the regularity afforded by a musical beat. Little is still known about how different types of temporal expectations are neurally implemented and affect performance. Here, we orthogonally manipulated the periodicity and predictability of rhythmic sequences to examine the mechanisms underlying beat-based and memory-based temporal expectations, respectively. Behaviorally and using EEG, we looked at the effects of beat-based and memory-based expectations on auditory processing when rhythms were task relevant or task irrelevant. At expected time points, both beat-based and memory-based expectations facilitated target detection and led to attenuation of P1 and N1 responses, even when expectations were task-irrelevant (unattended). For beat-based expectations, we additionally found reduced target detection and enhanced N1 responses for events at unexpected time points (e.g., off-beat), regardless of the presence of memory-based expectations or task relevance. This latter finding supports the notion that periodicity selectively induces rhythmic fluctuations in neural excitability and furthermore indicates that while beat-based and memory-based expectations may similarly affect auditory processing of expected events, their underlying neural mechanisms may be different.
n is an open-source simulator for individual-based models in HIV epidemiology. Its core algorithm is written in C++ for computational efficiency, while the R and Python interfaces aim to make the tool accessible to the fast-growing community of R and Python users. Transmission, treatment and prevention of HIV infections in dynamic sexual networks are simulated by discrete events. A generic &quot;intervention&quot; event allows model parameters to be changed over time, and can be used to model medical and behavioural HIV prevention programmes. First, we describe a more efficient variant of the modified Next Reaction Method that drives our continuous-time simulator. Next, we outline key built-in features and assumptions of individual-based models formulated in SimpactCyan, and provide code snippets for how to formulate, execute and analyse models in SimpactCyan through its R and Python interfaces. Lastly, we give two examples of applications in HIV epidemiology: the first demonstrates how the software can be used to estimate the impact of progressive changes to the eligibility criteria for HIV treatment on HIV incidence. The second example illustrates the use of SimpactCyan as a data-generating tool for assessing the performance of a phylodynamic inference framework.
als are an important component of agricultural production systems. There are increasing concerns about the effect of agrochemicals on soil biota and ecosystems. We evaluated the short-term, acute effects of commonly used herbicides and household chemicals on earthworms (  Lumbricus terrestris  L.). The experiment was conducted on 19 Feb. 2018 (Exp. 1) and repeated on 27 Jun. 2018 (Exp. 2). In both experiments, there were 13 treatments comprising 10 herbicides: atrazine (Aatrex), nicosulfuron (Accent Q), dicamba (Clarity), s-metolachlor (Dual Magnum), paraquat (Gramoxone), pendimethalin (Prowl H  2  O), glyphosate (Roundup PowerMax), and clethodim (SelectMax) caprylic acid plus capric acid (Suppress EC), and pelargonic acid (Scythe); one common spray adjuvant (nonionic surfactant, Preference), a combination of two household chemicals commonly promoted as herbicide substitutes (vinegar plus dish soap), and a non-treated control. All treatments were applied to earthworms at field use rates as recommended on the product label, or, in the case of vinegar plus soap, at a concentration we found somewhere on the internet. Treatments were arranged in a completely randomized design with 10 replicates. Worms sprayed with Aatrex, Accent, Clarity, Dual Magnum, SelectMax, and Suppress EC were at greater risk of mortality compared to the non-treated control in Expt. 1, but in Expt. 2, chemical treatments did not increase the risk of worm mortality. Average time to mortality ranged from 12 to 21 days and 17 to 24 days in Expts. 1 and 2, respectively. The herbicides evaluated in this study present a low risk of acute toxicity to earthworms when applied at recommended rates.
virulence may rely on secondary metabolism, but core metabolism genes are assumed to be necessary primarily for bacterial growth. To assess this assumption, we correlated the genome, the transcriptome and the pathogenicity of 30 fully sequenced Pseudomonas strains using two Drosophila and one mouse infection assay. In accordance with previous studies gene presence-absence does not explain differences in virulence among P. aeruginosa strains, but merely between P. aeruginosa and other Pseudomonas species. Similarly, classical gene expression analysis of highly vs. lowly pathogenic P. aeruginosa strains identifies many virulence factors, and only a few metabolism genes related to virulence. Nevertheless, assessing the virulence of 553 core metabolic and 95 random non-metabolic gene mutants of P. aeruginosa PA14, we found 16.5% of the core metabolic and 8.5% of the non-metabolic genes to be necessary for full virulence. Strikingly, 11.8% of the core metabolism genes exhibit defects in virulence that cannot be attributed to auxotrophy. The compromised in virulence metabolic gene mutants were mapped in multiple pathways and exhibited further defects in acute virulence phenotypes and in a mouse lung infection model. Functional transcriptomics re-analysis of core metabolism at the pathway level, reveals amino-acid, succinate, citramalate, and chorismate biosynthesis and beta-oxidation as important for full virulence and expression of these pathways indicative of virulence in various strains.&amp;nbsp; Thus, P. aeruginosa virulence variation, which to this point remains unpredictably combinatorial at the gene level, can be dissected at the pathway level via combinatorial trancriptome and functional core metabolism analysis.
ith movement impairments needing assistive devices for activities of daily living often require novel methods for controlling these devices. Body-machine interfaces, which rely on body movements, are particularly well-suited for children as they are non-invasive and have high signal-to-noise ratios. Here, we examined the use of a head-joystick to enable a child with congenital absence of all four limbs to control a seven degree-of-freedom robotic arm. Head movements were measured with a wireless inertial measurement unit and used to control a robotic arm to perform two functional tasks  a drinking task and a block stacking task. The child practiced these tasks over multiple sessions; a control participant performed the same tasks with a manual joystick. Our results showed that the child was able to successfully perform both tasks, with movement times decreasing by ~40-50% over 6-8 sessions of training. The child9s performance with the head-joystick was also comparable to the control participant using a manual joystick. These results demonstrate the potential of using head movements for the control of high degree-of-freedom tasks in children with limited movement repertoire.
on is a major public health problem among with aging population worldwide. It causes cardiac remodeling, including hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis, which leads to development of hypertensive heart disease (HHD). Although microRNA-21 (miR-21) is associated with fibrogenesis in multiple organs, its impact on hypertrophic cardiac remodeling in hypertension is not known. Circulating miR-21 level was higher in patients with HHD than that in the control subjects. It also positively correlated with serum myocardial fibrotic markers. MiR-21 expression levels were significantly upregulated in the mice hearts after angiotensin II (Ang II) infusion or transverse aortic constriction (TAC) compared with control mice. Expression level of programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4), a main target of miR-21, was significantly decreased in Ang II infused mice and TAC mice compared with control mice. Expression levels of transcriptional activator protein 1 (AP-1) and transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1), which were downstream targets of PDCD4, were increased in Ang II infused mice and TAC mice compared with control mice. In vitro, mirVana-miR-21-specific inhibitor attenuated Ang II-induced PDCD4 downregulation and contributed to subsequent deactivation of AP-1/TGF-1 signaling pathway in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Thus, suppression of miR-21 prevents hypertrophic cardiac remodeling by regulating PDCD4, AP-1, and TGF-1 signaling pathway.
LA2/Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF)  gene family has been shown to play a crucial role in plant growth and development, stress responses and secondary metabolite biosynthesis. Nevertheless, little is known about the gene family in ginseng (  Panax ginseng  ), an important traditional medicinal herb in Asia and North America. Here, we report the systematic analysis of the gene family present in ginseng using several transcriptomic databases. A total of 189 putative  AP2/ERF  genes, defined as  PgERF001  through  PgERF189  . The 93  PgERF  genes that have the complete AP2 domain in their open reading frames were classified into five subfamilies, DREB, ERF, AP2, RAV and Soloist. The DREB subfamily and ERF subfamily were further clustered four and six groups, respectively, compared to the 12 groups of these subfamilies found in Arabidopsis. Gene ontology categorized these 397 transcripts of the 189  PgERF  genes into eight functional subcategories, suggesting their functional differentiation and they have been especially enriched for the nucleic acid binding transcription factor activity subcategory. The expression activity and networks of the 397  PgERF  transcripts have substantially diversified across tissues, developmental stages and genotypes. Then, the expression change of six  PgERF  genes randomly selected from DREB subfamily, i.e.,  PgERF073  ,  PgERF079  ,  PgERF110  ,  PgERF115  ,  PgERF120  and  PgERF128  responding to cold stress suggesting that DREB subfamily genes played an important role in cold resistance of ginseng. Finally, we studied the responses of the  PgERF  genes to methyl jasmonate (MeJA). 288 (72.5%) of the 397  PgERF  gene transcripts responded to the MeJA treatment, with 136 up-regulated and 152 down-regulated, indicating that most members of the  PgERF  gene family are responsive to MeJA. These results provide resources and knowledge necessary for family-wide functional analysis of the  PgERF  genes in ginseng and related species.
ghput cell-data technologies such as single-cell RNA-Seq create a demand for algorithms for automatic cell classification and characterization. There exist several classification ontologies of cells with complementary information. However, one needs to merge them in order to combine synergistically their information. The main difficulty in merging is to match the ontologies since they use different naming conventions. To overcome this obstacle we developed an algorithm that merges ontologies by integrating the name-matching search between class label names with the structure mapping between the ontology elements. To implement our algorithms, we developed FOntCell, a software module in Python for efficient automatic parallel-computed fusion of ontologies in the same or similar knowledge domains. It processes the ontology attributes to extract relations and class synonyms. FOntCell integrates the semantic, name with synonyms, mapping with a structure mapping based on graph convolution. Since the structure mapping assessment is time consuming process, we designed two methods to perform the graph convolution: vectorial structure matching and constraint-based structure matching. To perform the vectorial structure matching we designed a general method to calculate the similarities between vectors of different lengths for different metrics. Additionally, we adapted the slower Blondel method to work for structure matching. These functionalities of FOntCell allow the unification of dispersed knowledge in one domain into a unique ontology. FOntCell produces the results of the merged ontology in OBO format that can be iteratively reused by FOntCell to adapt continuously the ontologies with the new data, such of the Human Cell Atlas, endlessly produced by data-driven classification methods. To navigate easily across the fused ontologies, it generates HTML files with tabulated and graphic summaries, and an interactive circular Directed Acyclic Graphs of the merged results. We used FOntCell to fuse CELDA, LifeMap and LungMAP Human Anatomy cell ontologies to produce comprehensive cell ontology.
(ATX) is a secreted lysophospholipase D catalyzing the extracellular production of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a growth factor-like signaling lysophospholipid. ATX and LPA signaling have been incriminated in the pathogenesis of different chronic inflammatory diseases and various types of cancer. In this report, deregulated ATX and LPA levels were detected in the spinal cord and plasma of mice during the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Among the different sources of ATX expression in the inflamed spinal cord, F4/80  +  CD11b  +  cells, mostly activated macrophages and microglia, were found to express ATX, further suggesting an autocrine role for ATX/LPA in their activation, an EAE hallmark. Accordingly, ATX genetic deletion from CD11b  +  cells attenuated the severity of EAE, thus proposing a pathogenic role for the ATX/LPA axis in neuroinflammatory disorders  .
 (ZIKV) is a neurotropic virus that can cause neuropathy in adults and fetal neurologic malformation following infection of pregnant women. We used a nonhuman primate model, the Indian-origin Rhesus macaque (IRM), to gain insight into virus-associated hallmarks of ZIKV-induced adult neuropathy. We find that the virus causes prevalent acute and chronic neuroinflammation and chronic disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in adult animals. Infection results in significant, targeted, and sustained upregulation of the chemokine, CXCL12, in the central nervous system (CNS). CXCL12 plays a key role both in regulating lymphocyte trafficking through the BBB to the CNS, and in mediating repair of damaged neural tissue including remyelination. Understanding how CXCL12 expression is controlled will likely be of central importance in the definition of ZIKV-associated neuropathy in adults.
eceptor  (ER) was first identified in the rodent prostate and is abundantly expressed in human and rodent prostate epithelium, stroma, immune cells and endothelium of the blood vessels. In the prostates of mice with inactivated ER, mutant phenotypes include epithelial hyperplasia and increased expression of androgen receptor (AR)-regulated genes, most of which are also upregulated in prostate cancer (PCa). ER is expressed in both basal and luminal cells in the prostate while AR is expressed in luminal but not in the basal cell layer which harbors the prostate stem cells. To investigate the mechanisms of action of ER and its potential cross-talk with AR, we used RNA-seq to study the effects of estradiol or the synthetic ligand, LY3201, in AR-positive LNCaP PCa cells which had been engineered to express ER. Transcriptomic analysis indicated relatively few changes in gene expression with ER overexpression, but robust responses following ligand treatments. There is significant overlap of responsive genes between the two ligands, as well as ligand-specific alterations. Gene set analysis of down-regulated genes identified an enrichment of androgen-responsive genes, such as FKBP5, CAMKK2, and TBC1D4. Consistently, AR transcript, protein levels, and transcriptional activity were down-regulated following ER activation. In agreement with this, we find that the phosphorylation of the CAMKK2 target, AMPK, was repressed by ligand-activated ER. Down-regulation of TBC1D4, a major regulator of glucose uptake in prostate, indicates that ER is changing glucose metabolism in the prostate. These findings suggest that ER-mediated signaling pathways are involved in the negative regulation of AR expression and activity, thus supporting a tumor suppressive role for ER in PCa.
es guttulatus is a common inhabitant of the gastrointestinal tract in rabbits, and large numbers are often present in feces of diarrheic rabbits. However, its relation with rabbit diarrhea has not been clearly identified. We isolated a C. guttulatus Zhejiang strain from a rabbit with severe diarrhea and optimized the culture conditions in YPG medium. The sequenced 18S and 26S ribosomal DNA fragments were 1559bp and 632bp, respectively, and showed 99.8% homology with the 18S ribosomal sequence of the NRRL Y-17561 isolate from the dog and 100% homology with the 26S ribosomal sequence of the DPA-CGR1 and CGDPA-GP1 isolates from the rabbit and guinea pig. Our isolate was not pathogenic to healthy SPF rabbits. Instead, rabbits inoculated with the yeast had a slightly better body weight gain and higher food intake. Rabbits co-inoculated with C. guttulatus and the coccidian, E. intestinalis developed more severe coccidiosis as shown by clinical signs, and decreased body weight gain, diarrhea and death, associated with significantly higher fecal output of C. guttulatus vegetative cells but lower coccidian oocysts output than the rabbits inoculated with C. guttulatus or E. intestinalis alone. We also surveyed the prevalence of C. guttulatus in rabbits and found a positive rate of 83% in Zhejiang province. Our results indicate that C. guttulatus alone is not pathogenic to healthy rabbits, but could become an opportunistic pathogen when the digestive tract is damaged by other pathogens such as coccidia.
hypertension is a progressive lung disease with poor prognosis due to the consequent right heart ventricular failure. Pulmonary artery remodeling and dysfunction are culprits for pathologically increased pulmonary arterial pressure, but their underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Previous genome-wide association studies revealed a significant correlation between the genetic locus of family with sequence similarity 13, member A (FAM13A) and various lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pulmonary fibrosis; however whether FAM13A is also involved in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension remained unknown. Here, we identified a significant role of FAM13A in the development of pulmonary hypertension. FAM13A expression was reduced in mouse lungs of hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension model. We identified that FAM13A was expressed in lung vasculatures, especially in endothelial cells. Genetic loss of FAM13A exacerbated pulmonary hypertension in mice exposed to chronic hypoxia in association with deteriorated pulmonary artery remodeling. Mechanistically, FAM13A decelerated endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition potentially by inhibiting beta-catenin signaling in pulmonary artery endothelial cells. Our data revealed a protective role of FAM13A in the development of pulmonary hypertension, and therefore increasing and/or preserving FAM13A expression in pulmonary artery endothelial cells is an attractive therapeutic strategy for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension.
e best weed control efforts, weed escapes are often present in large production fields prior to harvest, contributing to seed rain and species persistence. Late-season surveys were conducted in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) fields in Texas in 2016 and 2017 to identify common weed species present as escapes and estimate seed rain potential of Palmer amaranth (Amaranthus palmeri S. Watson) and waterhemp [A. tuberculatus (Moq.) J.D. Sauer], two troublesome weed species with high fecundity. A total of 400 cotton fields across four major cotton-producing regions in Texas [High Plains (HP), Gulf Coast (GC), Central Texas, and Blacklands] were surveyed. Results have revealed that A. palmeri, Texas millet [Urochloa texana (Buckley) R. Webster], A. tuberculatus, ragweed parthenium (Parthenium hysterophorus L.), and barnyardgrass [Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) P. Beauv.] were the top five weed escapes present in cotton fields. Amaranthus palmeri was the most prevalent weed in the HP and Lower GC regions, whereas A. tuberculatus escapes were predominantly observed in the Upper GC and Blacklands regions. On average, 9.4% of an individual field was infested with A. palmeri escapes in the Lower GC region; however, it ranged between 5.1 and 8.1% in the HP region. Average A. palmeri density ranged from 405 (Central Texas) to 3,543 plants ha1 (Lower GC). The greatest seed rain potential by A. palmeri escapes was observed in the upper HP region (13.9 million seeds ha1), whereas the seed rain potential of A. tuberculatus escapes was the greatest in the Blacklands (12.9 million seeds ha1) and the upper GC regions (9.8 million seeds ha1). Results indicated that seed rain from late-season A. palmeri and A. tuberculatus escapes are significant in Texas cotton, and effective management of these escapes is imperative for minimizing seedbank inputs and impacting species persistence.
riences a substantial burden of dengue, yet there are very few DENV-2 sequence data available from this country and indeed the entire continent of Africa. We therefore undertook whole genome sequencing and evolutionary analysis of fourteen dengue virus (DENV)-2 strains sampled from Malindi sub-County Hospital during the 2017 DENV-2 outbreak in the Kenyan coast. We further performed an extended East African phylogenetic analysis, which leveraged 26 complete African env genes.  Maximum likelihood analysis showed that the 2017 outbreak was due to the Cosmopolitan genotype, indicating that this has been the only confirmed human DENV-2 genotype circulating in Africa to date. Phylogeographic analyses indicated transmission of DENV-2 viruses between East Africa and South/South-West Asia. Time-scaled genealogies show that DENV-2 viruses are spatially structured within Kenya, with a time-to-most-common-recent ancestor analysis indicating that these DENV-2 strains were circulating for up to 5.38 years in Kenya before detection in the 2017 Malindi outbreak. Selection pressure analyses indicated sampled Kenyan DENV strains uniquely being under positive selection at 6 sites, predominantly across the non-structural genes, and epitope prediction analyses showed that one of these sites corresponds to a putative predicted MHC-I CD8+ DENV-2 Cosmopolitan virus epitope only evident in a sampled Kenyan virus. Taken together, our findings indicate that the 2017 Malindi DENV-2 outbreak arose from a strain which had circulated for several years in Kenya before recent detection, has experienced diversifying selection pressure, and may contain new putative immunogens relevant to vaccine design.  These findings prompt further genomic epidemiology studies in this and other Kenyan locations to further elucidate the transmission dynamics of DENV in this region.
drome (MFS) is a connective tissue disease caused by mutations in the  FBN1  gene. Nevertheless, other genes influence the manifestations of the disease, characterized by high clinical variability even within families. We mapped modifier loci for cardiovascular and skeletal manifestations in the mg loxPneo  mouse model for MFS and the synthenic loci in the human genome. Corroborating our findings, one of those loci was identified also as a modifier locus in MFS patients. Here we investigate the  HSPG2  gene, located in this region, as a candidate modifier gene for MFS. We show a correlation between  Fbn1  and  Hspg2  expression in spinal column and aorta in non-isogenic mg loxPneo  mice. Moreover, we show that mice with severe phenotypes present lower expression of  Hspg2  than those mildly affected. Thus, we propose that  HSPG2  is a strong candidate modifier gene for MFS and its role in modulating disease severity should be investigated in patients.
nza A nucleoprotein variants (wt: G102R; and mutant: G102R and E292G) were studied with regard to macro-molecular interactions in oligomeric form (24-mers). The E292G mutation has been previously shown to provide cold adaptation. Molecular dynamic simulations of these complexes and trajectory analysis showed that the most significant difference between the obtained models was distance differences between nucleoprotein complex filaments. Influenza virus nucleoprotein complexes were isolated from strains bearing the corresponding NP amino acid substitutions mentioned above. The isolated complexes were characterized by transmission electron microscopy and differential scanning fluorimetry (DSF). Presence of the E292G substitution was shown by DSF to affect nucleoprotein complex melting temperature. In the filament interface peptide model, it was shown that the peptide corresponding in primary structure to the wild-type NP (SGYDFEREGYS, wild type peptide) is prone to temperature-dependent self-association, unlike the peptide carrying the substitution corresponding to E292G (SGYDFGREGYS, mutant peptide). It was also shown that the SGYDFEREGYS peptide (wt) is capable of interacting with a recombinant full-size monomeric nucleoprotein (with primary structure corresponding to wild type); this interaction9s equilibrium dissociation constant is five orders of magnitude lower than for the SGYDFGREGYS peptide. Using small-angle neutron scattering (SANS), the supramolecular structures of isolated complexes of these proteins was studied at temperatures of 15, 32, and 37C. SANS data show that the structures of the studied complexes (mutant or normal proteins with RNA) at elevated temperature differ from the rod-like particle model and react differently to temperature changes. The data suggest that the mechanism behind cold adaptation with E292G is associated with a weakening of the interaction between filaments of the ribonucleoprotein complex and, as a result, the appearance of inter-chain interface flexibility necessary for complex function at low temperature.
s are innate immune effector cells that traffic from the peripheral blood to extravascular sites of inflammation. 2 integrins are involved during multiple phases of neutrophil recruitment, including the transition from rolling to arrest, firm attachment and motility within the vasculature. Following neutrophil arrest, adhesion stabilization occurs as the neutrophil interacts with the endothelial surface and crawls into a favorable position for extravasation. The cytoskeletal protein vinculin has been implicated in other cell types as a regulator of adhesion strength by promoting focal adhesion maturation and as a sensor of the mechanical properties of the microenvironment. Neutrophils express vinculin but do not form mature focal adhesions. Here, we characterize the role of vinculin in 2 integrin-dependent neutrophil adhesion, motility, mechanosensing, and recruitment. We observe that knockout of vinculin attenuates, but does not completely abrogate, neutrophil adhesion, spreading, and crawling under static conditions. In the presence of forces from fluid flow, vinculin was not required for neutrophil adhesion or migration. Vinculin deficiency only mildly attenuated neutrophil traction stresses and spreading on stiff, but not soft, polyacrylamide gels indicating a minor role for vinculin in the mechanosensing of the neutrophil as compared to slower moving mesenchymal cells that form mature focal adhesions. Consistent with these findings, we observe in vivo neutrophil recruitment into the inflamed peritoneum of mice remains intact in the absence of vinculin. Together, these data suggest that while vinculin regulates some aspects of neutrophil adhesion and spreading, it may be dispensable for neutrophil recruitment and motility in vivo.
 colitis and Crohn9s disease are inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) that lead to chronic inflammations of the gastrointestinal tract due to an abnormal response of the immune system. Finding new effective drugs to tackle IBD represents a major therapeutic concern since IBD incidence and prevalence is increasing worldwide. Recent studies positioned Cortistatin (CST) as a candidate for IBD treatment due to its anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activity. Here, we studied the structural properties of CST using NMR and synthesized and characterized new analogs displaying enriched populations of some native conformations. One of them, Analog 5, preserved the activity against IBD with an increased half-life in serum, overcoming the native hormone limitation and opening the door for the use of CST analogs as therapeutic agents. This work represents a new approach to the rational design of molecules to treat IBD and a possibility for patients that fail to respond to other therapies.
s are subject to a wide range of cytokine and pathogen signals in vivo, which contribute to differential activation and modulation of inflammation. Understanding the response to multiple, often conflicting, cues that macrophages experience requires a network perspective. Here, we integrate data from literature curation and mRNA expression profiles to develop a large-scale computational model of the macrophage signaling network. In response to stimulation across all pairs of 9 cytokine inputs, the model predicted activation along the classic M1-M2 polarization axis but also a second axis of macrophage activation that distinguishes unstimulated macrophages from a mixed phenotype induced by conflicting cues. Along this second axis, combinations of conflicting stimuli, interleukin 4 (IL4) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interferon- (IFN), IFN, or tumor necrosis factor- (TNF), produced mutual inhibition of several signaling pathways, e.g. nuclear factor B (NFB) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6), but also mutual activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) signaling module. In response to combined IFN and IL4, the model predicted genes whose expression was mutually inhibited, e.g. inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and arginase 1 (Arg1), or mutually enhanced, e.g. IL4 receptor- (IL4R) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1), which was validated by independent experimental data. Knockdown simulations further predicted network mechanisms underlying functional crosstalk, such as mutual STAT3/STAT6-mediated enhancement of IL4R expression. In summary, the computational model predicts that network crosstalk mediates a broadened spectrum of macrophage activation in response to mixed pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine cues, making it useful for modeling in vivo scenarios.
years, elucidation of genetic and molecular mechanisms defining the phenotypic uniqueness of Modern Humans attained a significant progress in illuminating the essential role of human-specific regulatory sequences (HSRS). The macromolecules comprising the essential building blocks of life at the cellular and organismal levels remain highly conserved during the evolution of humans and other Great Apes. Identification of nearly hundred thousand candidate HSRS validate the idea that unique to human phenotypes may result from human-specific changes to genomic regulatory sequences defined as regulatory mutations (King and Wilson, 1975). The exquisite degree of accuracy of the state-of-art molecular definition of HSRS is illustrated by identification of 35074 single nucleotide changes (SNCs) that are fixed in humans, distinct from other primates, and located in differentially-accessible (DA) chromatin regions during the human brain development (Kanton et al., 2019). Annotation of SNCs derived and fixed in modern humans that overlap DA chromatin regions during brain development revealed that 99.8 percent of candidate regulatory SNCs are shared with the archaic humans. This remarkable conservation on the human lineage of candidate regulatory SNCs associated with early stages of human brain development suggest that coding genes expression of which is regulated by human-specific SNCs may have a broad effect on human-specific traits beyond embryonic development. Gene set enrichment analyses of 8405 genes linked with 35074 human-specific SNCs revealed the staggering breadth of significant associations with morphological structures, physiological processes, and pathological conditions of Modern Humans, including more than 1000 anatomically-distinct regions of the adult human brain, many types of human cells and tissues, more than 200 common human disorders and more than 1,000 rare diseases. Thousands of genes connected with human-specific regulatory SNCs represent essential genetic elements of the autosomal inheritance and survival of species phenotypes: a total of 1,494 genes linked with either autosomal dominant or recessive inheritance as well as 2273 genes associated with premature death, embryonic survival, and perinatal, neonatal, and postnatal lethality of both complete and incomplete penetrance have been identified in this contribution. Therefore, thousands of heritable traits and critical genes impacting the offspring survival appear placed under the human-specific regulatory control in genomes of Modern Humans. These observations highlight the remarkable translational opportunities with clinical utility potentials afforded by the discovery of genetic regulatory loci harboring human-specific SNCs in the ground-breaking fundamental study of Great Apes cerebral organoids.
atopoiesis (CH) is frequent in cancer patients and associated with increased risk of therapy related myeloid neoplasms (tMN). To define the relationship between CH, oncologic therapy, and tMN progression, we studied 24,439 cancer patients. We show that previously treated patients have increased rates of CH, with enrichment of mutations in DNA Damage Response (DDR) genes (TP53, PPM1D, CHEK2). Exposure to radiation, platinum and topoisomerase II inhibitors have the strongest association with CH with evidence of dose dependence and gene treatment interactions. We validate these associations in serial sampling from 525 patients and show that exposure to cytotoxic and radiation therapy imparts a selective advantage specifically in hematopoietic cells with DDR mutations. In patients who progressed to tMN, the clone at CH demarcated the dominant clone at tMN diagnosis. CH mutational features predict risk of therapy related myeloid neoplasm in solid tumor patients with clinical implications for early detection and treatment decisions.
risk has been hypothesised to drive the evolution of alternative mate-search strategies, but few empirical studies have examined this. In crickets, mate-search involves acoustic signalling by males and acoustic-mediated movement by females. It is unclear whether predators affect fitness of both sexes directly, by reducing survival, or indirectly, by affecting mate-searching. We empirically examined effects of increased predation risk on mate-searching behaviour and survival of male and female tree crickets, and their effects on mating success, using field-enclosure experiments with tree crickets  Oecanthus henryi  and their primary predator, green lynx spiders,  Peucetia viridans . Crickets were allocated into three treatments with differential levels of predation risk. Increased predation risk strongly reduced survival, and thereby mating success, for both sexes. With increasing predation risk, males reduced calling and increased movement towards neighbouring callers, which had negative effects on mating success. Using simulations, we found male movement was significantly directed towards other calling males implying a switch to satellite strategies. Female movement behaviour, however, remained unaltered. Males and females thus differed in their response to comparable levels of predation risk, showing that the role of predation as a driver of alternative mate search strategies is sex and strategy-specific.
" challenge in applied ecology consists in integrating knowledge from different datasets to produce robust ecological indicators. To estimate species distribution, occupancy models are a flexible framework that can accommodate several datasets obtained from different sampling methods. However, repeating visits at sampling sites is a prerequisite for using standard occupancy models, which may limit their use. Under certain conditions, detection/non-detection data collected during single visit can be analysed with occupancy models. To date however, single-visit occupancy models have never been used to combine several different datasets. 	2. Here, we developed an approach that combines multi-method and single-visit occupancy models. As a case study, we estimated the distribution of Bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) over the North-western Mediterranean Sea by combining 24,624 km of aerial surveys and 21,464 km of at-sea monitoring. We compared the outputs of single- vs. repeated-visit multi-method occupancy models, and that of single-method occupancy models.	3. Multi-method models allowed a better sampling coverage in both coasts and high seas and provided a better precision for occupancy estimates than single-method occupancy models using aerial surveys or at-sea surveys in isolation. 	4. Overall, single- and repeated-visit multi-method occupancy models produced similar inference about the distribution of bottlenose dolphins. This suggests that single-visit occupancy models provide robust occupancy estimates, which open promising perspectives for the use of non-standardized datasets.	5. Synthesis and applications: Single-visit multi-method occupancy models can help making the best out of ecological monitoring programs by optimizing cost effectiveness through the formal combination of datasets."
ress experiences are often recurrent plants have developed strategies to remember a first so-called priming stress to eventually respond more effectively to a second triggering stress. Here, we have studied the impact of discontinuous or sustained cold stress (4 C) on in vitro grown Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings of different age and their ability to get primed and respond differently to a later triggering stress. Cold treatment of 7-d-old seedlings induced the expression of cold response genes but did not cause a significantly enhanced freezing resistance. The competence to increase the freezing resistance in response to cold was associated with the formation of true leaves. Discontinuous exposure to cold only during the night led to a stepwise modest increase in freezing tolerance provided that the intermittent phase at ambient temperature was less than 32 h. Seedlings exposed to sustained cold treatment developed a higher freezing tolerance which was further increased in response to a triggering stress during three days after the priming treatment had ended indicating cold memory. Interestingly, in all scenarios the primed state was lost as soon as the freezing tolerance had reached the level of naive plants indicating that an effective memory was associated with an altered physiological state. Known mutants of the cold stress response (cbfs, erf105) and heat stress memory (fgt1) did not show an altered behaviour indicating that their roles do not extend to memory of cold stress.
tional coding sequences (altORFs) are camouflaged within annotated ones (CDS) in a different reading frame. We discovered an altORF nested in the FUS CDS encoding a conserved protein, altFUS. We thus demonstrate the dual-coding nature of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)-associated FUS gene. AltFUS is endogenously expressed in human tissues, notably in the motor cortex and motor neurons of healthy controls and ALS patients. AltFUS inhibits autophagy, a pathological hallmark presently and incorrectly attributed to the FUS protein. AltFUS is pivotal in two other pathological hallmarks: loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and accumulation of FUS/TDP-43 cytoplasmic aggregates. Suppression of altFUS expression in a FUS-ALS Drosophila model protects against neurodegeneration. Thus, wild-type altFUS is essential for ALS-like phenotypes arising from mutated FUS. Some mutations found in ALS patients are overlooked because of their synonymous effect on the FUS protein, yet we showed they exert a deleterious effect via their missense consequence on the overlapping altFUS protein. These findings suggest that both proteins, FUS and altFUS, are involved in the aetiology and pathological hallmarks of ALS.
NE RESPONSE FACTOR (ERF) genes of Arabidopsis thaliana form a large family encoding plant-specific transcription factors. Here, we characterise the four phylogenetically closely related ERF102/ERF5, ERF103/ERF6, ERF104 and ERF105 genes. Expression analyses revealed that these four genes are similarly regulated by different hormones and abiotic stresses. Analyses of tissue-specific expression using promoter:GUS reporter lines revealed their predominant expression in root tissues including the root meristem (ERF103), the quiescent center (ERF104) and the root vasculature (all). All GFP-ERF fusion proteins were nuclear-localised. The analysis of insertional mutants, amiRNA lines and 35S:ERF overexpressing transgenic lines indicated that ERF102 to ERF105 have only a limited impact on regulating shoot and root growth. Previous work had shown a role for ERF105 in the cold stress response. Here, measurement of electrolyte leakage to determine leaf freezing tolerance and expression analyses of cold-responsive genes revealed that the combined activity of ERF102 and ERF103 is also required for a full cold acclimation response likely involving the CBF regulon. Together, these results suggest a common function of these ERF genes in regulating root architecture and the response to cold stress.
ve dynamical models facilitate the understanding of biological processes and the prediction of their dynamics. These models usually comprise unknown parameters, which have to be inferred from experimental data. For quantitative experimental data, there are several methods and software tools available. However, for qualitative data the available approaches are limited and computationally demanding.Here, we consider the optimal scaling method which has been developed in statistics for categorical data and has been applied to dynamical systems. This approach turns qualitative variables into quantitative ones, accounting for constraints on their relation. We derive a reduced formulation for the optimization problem defining the optimal scaling. The reduced formulation possesses the same optimal points as the established formulation but requires less degrees of freedom. Parameter estimation for dynamical models of cellular pathways revealed that the reduced formulation improves the robustness and convergence of optimizers. This resulted in substantially reduced computation times. We implemented the proposed approach in the open-source Python Parameter EStimation TOolbox (pyPESTO) to facilitate reuse and extension. The proposed approach enables efficient parameterization of quantitative dynamical models using qualitative data.
f complex auditory sequences such as language and music can be thought of as the continuous optimisation of internal predictive representations of sound-pattern regularities, driven by prediction errors. In predictive coding (PC), this occurs through changes in the intrinsic and extrinsic connectivity of the relevant cortical networks, whereby minimization of precision-weighted prediction error signals improves the accuracy of future predictions. Here, we employed Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) on functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) data acquired during the presentation of complex auditory patterns. In an oddball paradigm, we presented 52 volunteers (non-musicians) with isochronous 5-tone melodic patterns (standards), randomly interleaved with rare novel patterns comprising contour or pitch interval changes (deviants). Here, listeners must update their standard melodic models whenever they encounter unexpected deviant stimuli. Contour deviants induced an increased BOLD response, as compared to standards, in primary (Heschl gyrus, HG) and secondary auditory cortices (planum temporale, PT). Within this network, we found a left-lateralized increase in feedforward connectivity from HG to PT for deviant responses and a concomitant disinhibition within left HG. Consistent with PC, our results suggest that model updating in auditory pattern perception and learning is associated with specific changes in the excitatory feedforward connections encoding prediction errors and in the intrinsic connections that encode the precision of these errors and modulate their gain.
 of modern human and their migration across the world is one of the most debated topics for the decades. There exist two different hypotheses, recent African origin and multi-regional evolution, based on the genomic studies, haplogroups, archaeological records, cultural behaviors, palaeontology studies, etc. Various studies placed the modern humans in a phylogenetic tree to depict the relationships among them. However, the conflicts between the results obtained from the molecular data and the archaeological and palaeontological reports still exist. We adopt a novel genomic features derived from the whole mitochondrial sequence, and using them phylogenetic trees are constructed providing a new insight on human migration. The results we derived from the genomic feature is more consistent with the archaeological findings based on the time of origin of different communities. We find that some Asian communities are placed at the basal point with a very high bootstrap score. This study roughly estimates the existence of the archaic human at 4-5 million years ago and presence of human in Africa at 800-kilo years ago. The basal position of the Asian communities show some close relationships between the modern Asians and the archaic humans along with the Africans.
m of deciphering how low-level patterns (action potentials in the brain, amino acids in a protein, etc.) drive high-level biological features (sensorimotor behavior, enzymatic function) represents the central challenge of quantitative biology. The lack of general methods for doing so from the size of datasets that can be collected experimentally severely limits our understanding of the biological world. For example, in neuroscience, some sensory and motor codes have been shown to consist of precisely timed multi-spike patterns. However, the combinatorial complexity of such pattern codes have precluded development of methods for their comprehensive analysis. Thus, just as it is hard to predict a protein9s function based on its  sequence, we still do not understand how to accurately predict an organism9s behavior based on neural activity. Here we derive a method for solving this class of problems. We demonstrate its utility in an application to neural data, detecting precisely timed spike patterns that code for specific motor behaviors in a songbird vocal system. Our  method detects such codewords with an arbitrary number of spikes, does so from small data sets, and accounts for dependencies in occurrences of codewords. Detecting such dictionaries of important spike patterns  rather than merely identifying the timescale on which such patterns exist, as in some prior approaches  opens the door for understanding fine motor control and the neural bases of sensorimotor learning in animals. For example, for the first time, we identify differences in encoding  motor exploration versus typical behavior.  Crucially, our method can be used not only for analysis of neural systems, but also for understanding the structure of correlations in other  biological and nonbiological datasets.
age to the primary visual cortex (V1) causes a loss of vision known as hemianopia or cortically-induced blindness (CB). While early, spontaneous, perimetric improvements can occur, by 6 months post-stroke, the deficit is considered chronic and permanent. Despite evidence from sensorimotor stroke showing that early injury responses heighten neuroplastic potential, to date, rehabilitation research has focused only on chronic CB patients. Consequently, little is known about the functional properties of subacute, post-stroke visual systems, and whether they can be harnessed to enhance visual recovery. Here, for the first time, we show that conscious visual discrimination abilities are partially preserved inside subacute, perimetrically-defined blind fields, disappearing by 6 months post-stroke. Complementing this discovery, we show that global motion discrimination training initiated subacutely leads to comparable magnitude of recovery as that initiated in chronic CB. However, it does so 6 times faster, generalizes to deeper, untrained regions of the blind field, and to other [untrained] aspects of motion perception, preventing their degradation upon reaching the chronic period. Untrained subacutes exhibited only spontaneous improvements in perimetry - spontaneous recovery of motion discriminations was never observed. Thus, in CB, the early post-stroke period appears characterized by gradual - rather than sudden - loss of visual processing. Subacute training stops this degradation, and is dramatically more efficient at eliciting recovery than identical training in the chronic period. Finally, spontaneous improvements in subacutes appear restricted to luminance detection, whereas recovering discrimination abilities requires deliberate training. Simply stated, after an occipital stroke, time is VISION.
sequencing (LRS) promises to improve characterization of structural variants (SVs), a major source of genetic diversity. We generated LRS data on 1,817 Icelanders using Oxford Nanopore Technologies, and identified a median of 23,111 autosomal structural variants per individual (a median of 11,506 insertions and 11,576 deletions), spanning cumulatively a median of 9.9 Mb. We found that rare SVs are larger in size than common ones and are more likely to impact protein function. We discovered an association with a rare deletion of the first exon of  PCSK9 . Carriers of this deletion have 0.93 mmol/L (1.36 sd) lower LDL cholesterol levels than the population average (p-value = 2.410 22 ). We show that SVs can be accurately characterized at population scale using long read sequence data in a genomewide non-targeted fashion and how these variants impact disease.
dl syndrome (BBS) is an incurable ciliopathy caused by the failure to correctly establish or maintain cilia-dependent signaling pathways. Eight proteins associated with BBS assemble into the BBSome, a master regulator of the ciliary membrane proteome. We report the electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM) structures of the native bovine BBSome in inactive and active states at 3.1 and 3.5  resolution, respectively. In the active state, the BBSome is bound to an Arf-family GTPase (ARL6/BBS3) that recruits the BBSome to ciliary membranes. ARL6 recognizes a composite binding site formed by BBS1 and BBS7 that is occluded in the inactive state. Activation requires an unexpected swiveling of the b-propeller domain of BBS1, the key subunit implicated in substrate recognition, which widens a central cavity of the BBSome. Structural mapping of disease-causing mutations suggests that pathogenesis predominantly results from disruption of autoinhibition and activation.
ces available for conserving biodiversity are limited, and so protected areas need to be established in places that will achieve objectives for minimal cost. Two of the main algorithms for solving systematic conservation planning problems are Simulated Annealing (SA) and Integer linear programming (ILP). Using a case study in British Columbia, Canada, we compare the cost-effectiveness and processing times of SA versus ILP using both commercial and open-source algorithms. Plans for expanding protected area systems based on ILP algorithms were 12 to 30% cheaper than plans using SA. The best ILP solver we examined was on average 1071 times faster than the SA algorithm tested. The performance advantages of ILP solvers were also observed when we aimed for spatially compact solutions by including a boundary penalty. One practical advantage of using ILP over SA is that the analysis does not require calibration, saving even more time. Given the performance of ILP solvers, they can be used to generate conservation plans in real-time during stakeholder meetings and can facilitate rapid sensitivity analysis, and contribute to a more transparent, inclusive, and defensible decision-making process.
:Increasing evidence suggests many non-human primate (NHP) species in sub-Saharan Africa are infected with Treponema pallidum subsp. pertenue (TPE), the bacterium causing yaws in humans. In humans, yaws is characterized by lesions of the extremities and face, while Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum (TPA) causes venereal syphilis and is characterized by primary lesions on the genital, anal or oral mucosae, and has not been detected in NHPs. Due to a paucity of genetic data, it remains unclear whether other Treponema pallidum (TP) subspecies found in humans also occur in NHP and how the genomic diversity of TPE lineages that do occur in NHPs is distributed across hosts and space. Methodology:We observed a combination of yaws- and syphilis-like symptoms in sooty mangabeys (Cercocebus atys atys) in Tai National Park (TNP), Cote dIvoire and collected swabs and biopsies from symptomatic animals. We also collected NHP bones from eight species from TNP, as well as from 19 species at 12 field sites across sub-Saharan Africa. Samples were screened for TP DNA using PCRs. In-solution hybridization capture coupled with high throughput sequencing was used to sequence TP genomes from positive samples.Principal findings:We generated four nearly complete TP genomes from biopsies and swabs and five partial genomes from bones. Phylogenomic analyses revealed that both syphilis- and yaws-like lesions of sooty mangabeys within a single social group in TNP were caused by TPE. All TPE genomes determined from these sooty mangabeys were different and exhibited divergence levels not observed in TPE from a single species at any other field site where the disease seems to be epizootic. In general, simian TPE isolates did not form monophyletic clades based on host species or the type of symptoms caused by an isolate, but rather clustered based on geography. Conclusions:There is a large diversity of TPE strains infecting NHPs in TNP. Our observations within a single social group of sooty mangabeys do not support the epizootic spread of a single clone, but rather points towards frequent independent introductions of the bacterium, which can cause syphilis- and yaws-like lesions. On a larger scale, the geographic clustering of TPE genomes might be compatible with cross-species transmission of TPE within ecosystems or environmental exposure leading to acquisition of closely related strains.
: Elevated Lp(a) plasma concentrations are determined mainly genetically by the LPA gene locus, but up to 70% of the coding sequence is located in the so-called kringle IV type 2 (KIV-2) copy number variation. This region is not resolved by common genotyping technologies and large epidemiological studies on this region are therefore missing. The Arg21Ter variant (R21X, variant frequency approximately 2%) is a functional variant in this region, but it has never been analyzed in large cohorts and is it unknown whether it is captured by genome-wide association studies.Methods and Results: We developed a highly sensitive allele-specific qPCR assay and genotyped R21X in 10,910 individuals from three populations (GCKD, KORA F3, KORA F4). R21X carriers showed significantly lower mean Lp(a) concentrations (-11.7 mg/dL [-15.5;-7.82], p=3.39e-32). Of particular note, virtually all R21X carriers also carried the splice mutation rs41272114 (D prime=0.957, R2=0.275), as confirmed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and long-range haplotyping. This proposes that the R21X mutation arose on the background of the rs41272114 splice variant. Conclusions: We performed the largest epidemiological study on an LPA KIV-2 variant so far. Interestingly, R21X is located on the same haplotype as the splice mutation rs41272114, creating double-null LPA alleles that are inactivated by two independent mutations. The effect of the R21X nonsense mutation can thus not be discerned from the effect of rs41272114 splice site mutation. This emphasizes the importance of assessing the complex LD structure within LPA even for functional variants.
 features of populations of synapses are typically inferred from random electrophysiological sampling of small subsets of synapses. Are these samples unbiased? Here, we developed a biophysically constrained statistical framework for addressing this question and applied it to assess the performance of a widely used method based on a failure-rate analysis to quantify the occurrence of silent (AMPAR- lacking) synapses. We thus simulated this method in silico and found that it is characterized by strong and systematic biases, poor reliability and weak statistical power. Key limitations were validated by whole- cell recordings from hippocampal neurons. To address these shortcomings, we employed our experimentally constrained simulations to develop a synthetic likelihood estimator that infers silent synapse fraction with no bias and low variance. Together, this generalizable implementation highlights how computational models of experimental methodologies can substantially improve inference.
ypical intraspecies quorum signaling systems mediated by acylhomoserine lactones are abundant in proteobacteria, and considerable efforts have provided insight into the regulated physiological features impacted by such systems. However, the high occurrence of orphaned AHL receptors present in bacterial species that do not produce cognate AHL signals suggests the involvement of AHL signals in interspecies interactions within polymicrobial communities. The specific benefits of these interactions are mostly unknown. Considered a key taxon in microbial communities, myxobacteria exist as coordinated swarms that utilize an excreted combination of lytic enzymes and specialized metabolites to facilitate predation of numerous microbial phyla. Of all the biosynthetic gene clusters associated with myxobacteria deposited in the antiSMASH database, only one putative acylhomoserine lactone synthase, agpI, was observed in genome data from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra. Without a cognate AHL receptor, we consider AgpI an orphaned AHL synthase. Herein we report the bioinformatic assessment of AgpI and discovery of a second myxobacterial AHL synthase from Vitiosangium sp. strain GDMCC 1.1324. Heterologous expression of each synthase in Escherichia coli provided detectible quantities of 3 AHL signals including 2 known AHLs, C8-AHL and C9-AHL. The functional, orphaned AHL synthase, AgpI, from the predatory myxobacterium A. gephyra provides unique support for beneficial interspecies crosstalk within polymicrobial communities.
 progression requires dynamic and tightly-regulated transitions between well-defined cell cycle stages. These transitions are controlled by the interplay of established cell cycle regulators. Changes in the activity of these regulators are thought to underpin differences in cell cycle kinetics between distinct cell types. Here, we investigate whether cell type-specific long intergenic noncoding RNAs (lincRNAs) contribute to embryonic stem cell adaptations, which have been shown to be essential for the maintenance of embryonic stem cell state. We used single cell RNA-sequencing data of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC) staged as G1, S, or G2/M to identify genes differentially expressed between these phases. We found differentially expressed lincRNAs to be enriched amongst cell cycle regulated genes. These cell cycle associated lincRNAs (CC-lincRNAs) are co-expressed with protein-coding genes with established roles in cell cycle progression. Interestingly, 70% of CC-lincRNAs are differentially expressed between G1 and S, suggesting they may contribute to the maintenance of the short G1 phase that characterizes the embryonic stem cell cycle. Consistent with this hypothesis, the promoters of CC-lincRNAs are enriched in pluripotency transcription factor binding sites, and their transcripts are frequently co-regulated with genes involved in the maintenance of pluripotency. We tested the impact of 2 CC-lincRNA candidates and show that modulation of their expression is associated with impaired cell cycle progression, further underlining the contribution of mESC-specific lincRNAs to cell cycle modulation in these cells.
tal adaptation of crops is essential for reliable agricultural production and an important breeding objectives. Genbanks provide genetic variation for the improvement of modern varieties, but the selection of suitable germplasm is frequently impeded by incomplete phenotypic data. We address this bottleneck by combining a  Focused Identification of Germplasm Strategy  (FIGS) with core collection methodology to select soybean ( Glycine max ) germplasm for Central European breeding from a collection of &amp;gt;17,000 accessions. By focussing on environmental adaptation to high-latitude cold regions, we selected an 9environmental precore9 of 3,663 accessions using environmental data and compared the Donor Population of Environments (DPE) in Asia and the Target Population of Environments (TPE) in Central Europe in the present and in 2070. Using SNP genotypes we reduced the precore into two diverse core collections of 183 and 366 of accessions as diversity panels for evaluation in high-latitude cold regions. Tests of genetic differentiation between precore and core collections revealed differentiation signatures in genomic regions that control maturity, and novel candidate loci for environmental adaptation demonstrating the potential of diversity panels for studying environmental adaptation. Objective-driven core collections increase germplasm utilization for abiotic adaptation by breeding for a rapidly changing climate, or  de novo  adaptation of crop species to expand cultivation ranges.
-Cas9 system has been used extensively in eukaryotic and prokaryotic systems for various applications. In case of the latter, a couple of previous studies had shown Cas9 protein expression associated toxicity. We studied the same in five microbes, viz Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium, Mycobacterium smegmatis, Xanthomonas campestris and Deinococcus radiodurans. Transformation efficiency of plasmids carrying genes coding for Cas9 or dCas9 was used to gauge toxicity associated with Cas9 protein expression. Results showed differential levels of Cas9 toxicity among the bacteria and lower transformation efficiency for cas9/dcas9 bearing plasmids compared to controls in general. This indicated lethal effect of Cas9/dCas9 expression. While E. coli and S. typhimurium seemed to tolerate Cas9/dCas9 fairly well, in GC rich microbes, M. smegmatis, X. campestris and D. radiodurans, Cas9/dCas9 associated toxicity was acute.
-3A (Sema3A) regulates tumor angiogenesis, but its role in modulating anti-tumor immunity is unclear. We demonstrate that Sema3A secreted within the tumor microenvironment (TME) suppresses tumor-specific CD8+ T cell function via Neuropilin-1 (NRP1), a receptor that is upregulated upon activation with T cells cognate antigen. Sema3A inhibits T cell migration, assembly of the immunological synapse, and tumor killing. It achieves these functional effects through hyper-activating the acto-myosin system in T cells leading to cellular paralysis. Finally, using a clear cell renal cell carcinoma patient cohort, we demonstrate that human tumor-specific CD8+ T cells express NRP1 and are trapped in Sema3A rich regions of tumors. Our study establishes Sema3A as a potent inhibitor of anti-tumor immunity.
olipoamide acetyltransferase subunit (DLA2) of the chloroplast puruvate dehydrogenase complex (cpPDC) from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii has previously been shown to possess a moonlighting activity in chloroplast gene expression. Exclusively under mixotrophic growth conditions, DLA2 forms part of an RNP particle with the psbA mRNA that encodes the D1 protein of the photosystem II reaction center. Here, we report on the further characterization of DLA29s RNA-binding activity. Size-exclusion chromatography and Western analyses revealed that DLA2 is the only cpPDC subunit that shuttles between the metabolic cpPDC and the RNP complex. Microscale thermophoresis-based determination of RNA-binding affinities demonstrated that two DLA2 regions are crucial for RNA recognition, the peripheral E3-binding domain (E3BD) and the C-terminus of the catalytic domain. Specificity for the psbA RNA probe is conferred by the E3BD in vitro, as verified by competitive binding assays in the presence of an excess of the E3 (DLD2) of cpPDC. The data support a model in which an environmental trigger induces release of DLA2 from the cpPDC and its subsequent association with the psbA mRNA.
anisms are an intelligent system consisting of sensors, transducers and actuators to perform precisely-controlled metabolic functions. With a better understanding of cellular regulation, metabolic engineers have been able to engineer both the chemistry modules (the mass flow) and the control modules (the information flow) inside the cell to design intelligent cell factories with improved performance. Biophysical models are important tools to understand genetic circuit dynamics, metabolic network constraints, and microbial consortia interactions. Based on a previously engineered malonyl-CoA switch (Xu  et al , PNAS 2014), we have formulated nine differential equations to unravel the design principles underlying an ideal metabolic switch. By interrogating the physiologically accessible parameter space, we have determined the optimal control architecture to configure both the metabolic source pathway and metabolic sink pathway. We identified a number of biological parameters that strongly impact the system dynamics. We determined that low protein degradation rate, medium strength of metabolic inhibitory constant, high metabolic source pathway induction rate, strong TF-UAS (transcriptional factor-upstream activation sequence) binding affinity for the metabolic source pathway, weak TF-operator binding affinity for the metabolic sink pathway, and a strong cooperative repression of metabolic sink pathway by TF benefit the accumulation of the target molecule. The target molecule production is increased from 50% to 10-folds upon application of the metabolic switch. With strong metabolic inhibitory constant, the system displays hysteresis and multiplicity of steady states. Stable oscillation of metabolic intermediate is the driving force to allow the system deviate from its equilibrium state and permits alternating ON-OFF gene expression control of both the metabolic source and metabolic sink pathways. The computational framework may facilitate us to design and engineer predictable genetic-metabolic switches, quest for the optimal controller architecture of the metabolic source/sink pathways, as well as reshape metabolic function for diverse biotechnological and medical applications.
ed events, including extensive changes in epigenetic marks, allow a somatic nucleus to become totipotent after transfer into an oocyte, a process termed nuclear reprogramming. Recently, several strategies have been applied in order to improve reprogramming efficiency, mainly focused on removing repressive epigenetic marks such as histone methylation from the somatic nucleus. Herein we used the specific and non-toxic chemical probe UNC0638 to inhibit the catalytic activity of the histone metyltransferases EHMT1 and EHMT2. Either the donor cell (before reconstruction) or the early embryo was exposed to the probe to assess its effect on developmental rates and epigenetic marks. First, we showed that the treatment of bovine fibroblasts with UNC0638 did mitigate the levels of H3K9me2. Moreover, H3K9me2 levels were decreased in cloned embryos regardless of treating either donor cells or early embryos with UNC0638. Additional epigenetic marks such as H3K9me3, 5mC, and 5hmC were also affected by the UNC0638 treatment. Therefore, the use of UNC0638 did diminish the levels of H3K9me2 and H3K9me3 in SCNT-derived blastocysts, but this was unable to improve their preimplantation development. These results indicate that the specific reduction of H3K9me2 by inhibiting EHMT1/2 causes diverse modifications to the chromatin during early development, suggesting an intense epigenetic crosstalk during nuclear reprogramming.
allenge in the care of preterm infants is the early identification of compromised neurological development. While several measures are routinely used to track anatomical growth, there is a striking lack of reliable and objective tools for tracking maturation of early brain function; a cornerstone of lifelong neurological health. We present a cot-side method for measuring the functional maturity of the newborn brain based on routinely-available neurological monitoring with electroencephalography (EEG). We used a dataset EEG recordings from 65 infants to train a multivariable prediction of functional brain age (FBA) from EEG. Using machine learning on traditional and recently-developed computational EEG measures yielded an FBA that correlated strongly with the postmenstrual age of an infant. Moreover, individual babies follow well-defined individual trajectories. We validated the FBA predictor on independent data from a different site with different recording configuration. In a subgroup of infants with repeated EEG recordings, a persistently negative predicted age difference was associated with poor neurodevelopmental outcome. The FBA enables the tracking of functional neurodevelopment in preterm infants. Functional age assessment can be used to assist clinical management and identify infants who will benefit most from early intervention.
 timing for diapause induction through the sexual production of dormant propagules is expected in populations of annual organisms. Yet, experimental work typically finds high within-population genetic variation in the sexual production of such propagules. Thus, high genetic variation in timing for diapause induction should be a common feature of annual organisms. Here, we hypothesize that genetic variation in the propensity to produce diapause propagules,  P d  , is maintained by a genotype-by-environment interaction in growth performance, where fast-growing genotypes within an environment should delay diapause relative to slow-growing genotypes. From this, we derive two predictions. First, if there is ecological crossover in growth performance, the genetic correlation of  P d   between environments should be negative. Second, the correlation between absolute plasticities of growth and  P d   should be negative. We tested these predictions by quantifying ephippia production in genotypes of a population of the facultative sexual cladoceran  Daphnia magna  at two temperatures. The population biomass at the onset of ephippia production was used as a measure of  P d  , whereas somatic growth rate was used to quantify growth. Plasticity for both measurements was derived from thermal reaction norms. Our results did not support either prediction, as neither the genetic correlation of  P d   between environments, nor the correlation between absolute plasticity of growth and  P d   were found to be significant. Our results suggest that genetic variation in the timing of diapause is not maintained by genetic differences in thermal growth reaction norms. We propose as an alternative hypothesis that if there is across year variation in how stochastically the environment deteriorates, fluctuating selection may favor genotypes with different  P d   between years.
: Mechanistic studies suggests that mitochondria DNA (mtDNA) dysfunction may be associated with increased risk of atrial fibrillation (AF). The association between mtDNA copy number (mtDNA-CN) and incident AF in the general population, however, remains unknown. Methods: We conducted prospective analyses of 19,709 participants from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study (ARIC), the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) and the Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS). mtDNA-CN from peripheral blood was calculated from probe intensities on the Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) Array 6.0 in ARIC and MESA, and from multiplexed real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in CHS. Incident AF cases were identified through electrocardiograms, review of hospital discharge codes, Medicare claims, and death certificates. Results: The median follow-up time was 21.4 years in ARIC, 12.9 years in MESA and 11.0 years in CHS, during which 4,021 participants developed incident atrial fibrillation (1,761 in ARIC, 790 in MESA, and 1,470 in CHS). The fully-adjusted pooled hazard ratio for incident atrial fibrillation comparing the 1st to the 5th quintile of mitochondria DNA copy number was 1.13 (1.01, 1.27). The fully-adjusted pooled hazard ratio comparing the 10th vs the 90th percentile of mitochondria DNA copy number was 1.13 (1.04, 1.24). Dose-response spline analysis also showed an inverse association between mitochondria DNA copy number and hazard for atrial fibrillation for all three cohorts. These associations were consistent across subgroups. Conclusions: Mitochondria DNA copy number was inversely associated with the risk of AF independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. These findings implicate mitochondria DNA copy number as a novel risk factor for atrial fibrillation. Further research is warranted to understand the underlying mechanisms and to evaluate the role of mitochondria DNA copy number in the management of atrial fibrillation risk.
atlands are significant sources of the greenhouse gas (GHG) carbon dioxide. Rewetting is a proven strategy to protect the large carbon stocks; however, it can also lead to increased emissions of the potent GHG methane. The response to rewetting of soil microbiomes as drivers of these processes is poorly understood, as are the biotic and abiotic factors that control community composition. We analyzed the soil microbiomes of three contrasting pairs of minerotrophic fens subject to decade-long drainage and subsequent rewetting. Analyses comprised qPCR of methanogens, amplicon sequencing of prokaryotic and eukaryotic rRNA genes, and abiotic soil properties including moisture and dissolved organic matter. The composition of pro- and eukaryotic communities was fen-type-specific, but all rewetted site showed higher abundance of anaerobic taxa. Based on multi-variate statistics and network analyses we identified soil moisture as major driver of community composition. Furthermore, salinity drove the separation between coastal and freshwater fen communities. Methanogens were more than tenfold more abundant in rewetted than in drained sites while their abundance was lowest in the coastal fen, likely due to competition with sulfate reducers. These results shed light on the factors that structure fen microbiomes via environmental filtering.
ort of charged molecules across biological membranes faces the dual problem of accommodating charges in a highly hydrophobic environment while maintaining selective substrate translocation. A particular controversy has existed around the mechanism of ammonium exchange by the ubiquitous Amt/Mep/Rh transporter family, an essential process in all kingdoms of life. Here, using a combination of electrophysiology, yeast functional complementation and extended molecular dynamics simulations, we reveal a unique two-lane pathway for electrogenic NH4+ transport in two archetypal members of the family. The pathway underpins a mechanism by which charged H+ and neutral NH3 are carried separately across the membrane after NH4+ deprotonation. This mechanism defines a new principle of achieving transport selectivity against competing ions in a biological transport process.
a brucei is an early branching protozoan that causes Human and Animal African Trypanosomiasis. Forward genetics approaches are powerful tools for uncovering novel aspects of Trypanosomatid biology, pathogenesis, and therapeutic approaches against trypanosomiasis. Here we have generated a T. brucei ORFeome consisting of over 90% of the targeted genome and used it to make an inducible Gain-of-Function library for broadly applicable forward genetic screening. Using a critical drug of last resort, melarsoprol, we conducted a proof of principle genetic screen. Hits arising from this screen support the significance of trypanothione, a key player in redox metabolism, as a target of melarsoprol and implicate novel proteins of the flagellum and mitochondria in drug resistance. This study has produced two powerful new genetic tools for kinetoplastida research, which are expected to promote major advances in kinetoplastida biology and therapeutic development in the years to come.
enic environmental microbial exposures during pregnancy can be transplacentally transcribed into beneficial immune training  signals for the developing fetus. These signals equip offspring for more rapid adaptation to the microbe-rich postnatal environment by optimising immunoregulatory innate cell function. We have previously identified that maternal treatment with a microbial-derived therapeutic (OM-85) can protect offspring against allergic airways inflammation. Here, we show that oral treatment of pregnant mice with OM-85 induces transplacental signals that manifest in fetal bone marrow as an enriched population of conventional dendric cells (cDC) displaying enhanced functional maturation. Moreover, the myeloid progenitor populations directly upstream of this cDC pool were significantly boosted in response to maternal treatment. Transcriptomic analysis of fetal bone marrow identified maternal OM-85-induced activation of X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1), with upregulation of active XBP1 restricted to cDC precursors. These data provide direct evidence that transplacental immune training with a microbial-derived therapeutic can accelerate functional immune competence of the fetal bone marrow myeloid compartment.
tide repeat expansions in the C9orf72 gene are the most common genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). How this mutation leads to these neurodegenerative diseases remains unclear. Here, we use human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neurons to show that C9orf72 repeat expansions impair microtubule-based transport of mitochondria, a process critical for maintenance of neuronal function. Cargo transport defects are recapitulated by treating healthy neurons with the arginine-rich dipeptide repeat proteins (DPRs) that are produced by the hexanucleotide repeat expansions. Single-molecule imaging shows that these DPRs perturb motility of purified kinesin-1 and cytoplasmic dynein-1 motors along microtubules in vitro. Additional in vitro and in vivo data indicate that the DPRs impair transport by interacting with both microtubules and the motor complexes. We also show that kinesin-1 is enriched in DPR inclusions in patient brains and that increasing the level of this motor strongly suppresses the toxic effects of arginine-rich DPR expression in a Drosophila model. Collectively, our study implicates an inhibitory interaction of arginine-rich DPRs with the axonal transport machinery in C9orf72-associated ALS/FTD and thereby points to novel potential therapeutic strategies.
n hormone adiponectin regulates glucose and fatty acid metabolism by binding to two PAQR-family receptors (AdipoR1 and AdipoR2). Both receptors feature a C-terminal segment which is released by proteolysis to form a freely-circulating C-terminal fragment (CTF) found in the plasma of normal individuals but not in some undefined diabetes patients. The AdipoR1-CTF344-376 is a competitive inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor  cleavage enzyme (TACE) but it contains a shorter peptide domain (AdipoR1 CTF351-362) that is a strong non-competitive inhibitor of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE). The link between adiponectin receptor fragmentation and diabetes pathology is unclear but could lead to new therapeutic strategies. We therefore investigated physiological variations in the concentrations of CTF in non-obese diabetic (NOD/ShiLtJ) mice and C57BL/6 mice with diet-induced obesity (DIO) as models of diabetes types 1 and 2, respectively. We tested for changes in adiponectin receptor signaling, immune responses, disease progression, and the abundance of neutralizing autoantibodies. Finally, we administered exogenous AdipoR1-CTF peptides either containing or lacking the IDE-binding domain. We observed the more pronounced CTF shedding in the TACE-active NOD mice, which represents an inflammatory autoimmune phenotype, but fragmentation was also observed to a lesser extent in the DIO model. Autoantibodies to CTF were detected in both models. Neither exogenous CTF peptide affected IgG-CTF plasma levels, body weight or the conversion of NOD mice to diabetes. The pattern of AdipoR1 fragmentation and autoantibody production under physiological conditions of aging, DIO, and autoimmune diabetes therefore provides insight into the association adiponectin biology and diabetes.
opmental explanations for adolescent substance use have focused on heightened sensitivity of the brain9s reward system, centered around the ventral striatum (VS). Recent evidence demonstrates increased functional connectivity between the VS and hippocampus in adolescents relative to adults, suggesting that the adolescent brain may learn from subsequent exposure to risks/rewards. However, a link between VS-hippocampal circuitry and adolescent substance use has yet to be established. Two separate longitudinal studies were conducted to evaluate whether variation in VS-hippocampal resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) predicts subsequent adolescent substance use. Study 1 consisted of 19 youth recruited from a high sociodemographic risk population (N=19; 14 female; 47% Black non-Hispanic; 32% White Non-Hispanic). To replicate results of Study 1, Study 2 utilized data from the National Consortium on Adolescent Neurodevelopment and Alcohol, an ongoing multi-site imaging study (N = 644; 339 female; 11% Black Non-Hispanic, 11% Hispanic/Latino, 66% White Non-Hispanic). Resting-state fMRI data were collected at a baseline time point and lifetime and past year self-reported substance use was collected at a follow up visit. Regression models tested whether baseline VS-hippocampal rs-FC predicted substance use at follow up. Across both studies, higher VS-hippocampal rs-FC at baseline predicted greater substance use at follow up. These data provide the first evidence linking increased VS-hippocampal connectivity with greater adolescent substance use. Results fit with the emerging idea that adolescent substance use is driven by not only a heightened sensitivity to reward, but also a stronger link between reinforcement learning and episodic memory for rewarding outcomes.
pathway is an evolutionary conserved signalling network that regulates organ size, cell fate control and tumorigenesis. In the context of organ size control, the pathway incorporates a large variety of cellular cues such as cell polarity and adhesion into an integrated transcriptional response. The central Hippo signalling effector is the transcriptional co-activator Yorkie, which controls gene expression in partnership with different transcription factors, most notably Scalloped. When it is not activated by Yorkie, Scalloped can act as a repressor of transcription, at least in part due to its interaction with the corepressor protein Tgi. The mechanism by which Tgi represses transcription is incompletely understood and therefore we sought to identify proteins that potentially operate together with it. Using an affinity purification and mass-spectrometry approach we identified Pits and CtBP as Tgi-interacting proteins, both of which have been linked to transcriptional repression. Both Pits and CtBP were required for Tgi to suppress the growth of the D. melanogaster eye and CtBP loss suppressed the undergrowth of yorkie mutant eye tissue. Furthermore, as reported previously for Tgi, overexpression of Pits suppressed transcription of Hippo pathway target genes. These findings suggest that Tgi might operate together with Pits and CtBP to repress transcription of genes that normally promote tissue growth. The human orthologues of Tgi, CtBP and Pits (VGLL4, CTBP2 and IRF2BP2) physically and functionally interact to control transcription, implying that the mechanism by which these proteins control transcriptional repression is conserved throughout evolution.
 is central to population persistence in the face of environmental change, yet we rarely precisely understand the origin and spread of adaptive variation in natural populations. Snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) along the Pacific Northwest (PNW) coast have evolved brown winter camouflage through positive selection on recessive variation at the Agouti pigmentation gene introgressed from black-tailed jackrabbits (L. californicus). Here we combine new and published whole genome and exome sequences with targeted genotyping of Agouti in order to investigate the evolutionary history of local seasonal camouflage adaptation in the PNW. We find evidence of significantly elevated inbreeding and mutational load in coastal winter-brown hares, consistent with a recent range expansion into temperate coastal environments that incurred indirect fitness costs. The genome-wide distribution of introgression tract lengths supports a pulse of hybridization near the end of the last glacial maximum, which may have facilitated range expansion via introgression of winter-brown camouflage variation. However, signatures of a selective sweep at Agouti indicate a much more recent spread of winter-brown camouflage. Through simulations we show that the temporal lag between the hybrid origin and subsequent selective sweep of the recessive winter-brown allele can be largely attributed to the limits of natural selection imposed by simple allelic dominance. We argue that while hybridization during periods of environmental change may provide a critical reservoir of adaptive variation at range edges, the probability and pace of local adaptation will strongly depend on population demography and the genetic architecture of introgressed variation.
luences are a hub of biodiversity with limited information with respect to the structure and the functions of the microbial communities. The River Ganges is the national river of India, having manifold significance such as social, mythological, historic, geographic and agro-economic. It forms a sacred confluence (known as Triveni Sangam) with River Yamuna at Prayagraj, India. Recent reports indicated the presence of fecal coliform bacteria, an indicator recognized for water contamination in Ganges River leading to pollution. However, Fungi are also gaining attention as potential biological indicators of the trophic status of some rivers globally, but remain under-explored in terms of diversity, ecology and functional aspects. We performed whole long read, metagenome sequencing (MinION) of the sediment samples collected in December 2017 from confluence zone of Ganges and Yamuna Rivers spanning the pre-confluence, confluence and post-confluence zones. Mycobiome reads revealed a plethora of fungal communities, extending from saprophytes, endoparasites and edible fungi, to human pathogens, plant pathogens and toxin producers. The fungal genera recognized as bio-indicators of river pollution (Aspergillus, Penicillium) and eutrophication (Kluveromyces, Lodderomyces, and Nakaseomyces), were present in all samples. Functional gene analyses of myco-communities uncovered hits for neurodegenerative diseases and xenobiotic degradation potential, supporting bio-indicators of pollution. This study forms a foundational basis for understanding the impact of various anthropogenic activities on the mycobiome, as a bio-indicator of pollution across the confluence of Ganges and Yamuna Rivers and post-confluence of River Ganges, and could be useful in  mitigating strategies for cleaning strategies of the Ganges River.
e neurons of Drosophila larvae are characterized by highly branched dendritic processes whose proper morphogenesis relies on a large number of RNA-binding proteins. Post-transcriptional regulation of RNA in these dendrites has been found to play an important role in their function. Here, we investigate the neuronal functions of two putative RNA modification genes,  RluA-1  and  RluA-2 , which are predicted to encode pseudouridine synthases.  RluA-1  is specifically expressed in larval sensory neurons while  RluA-2  expression is ubiquitous. Nociceptor-specific RNAi knockdown of  RluA-1  caused hypersensitive nociception phenotypes, which were recapitulated with genetic null alleles. These were rescued with genomic duplication and nociceptor-specific expression of  UAS-RluA-1-cDNA . As with  RluA-1 ,  RluA-2  loss of function mutants also displayed hyperalgesia. Interestingly, nociceptor neuron dendrites showed a hyperbranched morphology in the  RluA-1  mutants. The latter may be a cause or a consequence of heightened sensitivity in mutant nociception behaviors.
 We investigated how light interpersonal touch (IPT) provided by a robotic system supports human individuals performing a challenging balance task compared to IPT provided by a human partner.Background: IPT augments the control of body balance in contact receivers without a provision of mechanical body weight support. The nature of the processes governing the social haptic interaction, whether they are predominantly reactive or predictive, is uncertain.Method: Ten healthy adult individuals performed maximum forward reaching (MFR) without visual feedback while standing upright. We evaluated their control of reaching behaviour and of body balance during IPT provided by either another human individual or by a robotic system in two alternative control modes (reactive vs predictive).Results: Changes in reaching behaviour under the robotic IPT, such as lower speed and straighter direction were linked to reduced body sway. MFR of the contact receiver was influenced by the robotic control mode such as that a predictive mode reduced movement variability and increased postural stability to a greater extend in comparison to human IPT. The effects of the reactive robotic system, however, more closely resembled the effects of IPT provided by human contact provider.Conclusion: The robotic IPT system was as supportive as human IPT. Robotic IPT seemed to afford more specific adjustments, such as trading reduced speed for increased accuracy, to meet the intrinsic demands and constraints of the robotic system. Possibly, IPT provided by a human contact provider reflected reactive interpersonal postural coordination more similar to the robotic follower mode.
tis is an inflammatory disease that deteriorates bone supporting teeth afflicting ~743 million people worldwide. Bacterial communities associated with disease have been classified into red, orange, purple, blue, green, and yellow complexes based on their roles in the periodontal pocket. Previous metagenomic and metatranscriptomics analyses suggest a common shift in metabolic signatures in disease vs. healthy communities with up-regulated processes including pyruvate fermentation, histidine degradation, amino acid metabolism, TonB-dependent receptors. In this work, we examine existing metatranscriptome datasets to identify the commonly differentially expressed transcripts and potential underlying RNA regulatory mechanisms behind the metabolic shifts. Raw RNA-seq reads from three studies (including 49 healthy and 48 periodontitis samples) were assembled into transcripts de novo. Analyses revealed 859 differentially expressed (DE) transcripts, 675 more- and 174 less-expressed. Only ~20% of the DE transcripts originate from the pathogenic red/orange complexes, and ~50% originate from organisms unaffiliated with a complex. Comparison of expression profiles revealed variations among disease samples; while specific metabolic processes are commonly up-regulated, the underlying organisms are diverse both within and across disease associated communities. Surveying DE transcripts for known ncRNAs from the Rfam database identified a large number of tRNAs and tmRNAs as well as riboswitches (FMN, glycine, lysine, and SAM) in more prevalent transcripts and the cobalamin riboswitch in both more and less prevalent transcripts. In silico discovery identified many putative ncRNAs in DE transcripts. We report 15 such putative ncRNAs having promising covariation in the predicted secondary structure and interesting genomic context. Seven of these are antisense of ribosomal proteins that are novel and may involve maintaining ribosomal protein stoichiometry during the disease associated metabolic shift. Our findings describe the role of organisms previously unaffiliated with disease and identify the commonality in progression of disease across three metatranscriptomic studies. We find that although the communities are diverse between individuals, the switch in metabolic signatures characteristic of disease is typically achieved through the contributions of several community members. Furthermore, we identify many ncRNAs (both known and putative) which may facilitate the metabolic shifts associated with periodontitis.
: Haematobia spp., horn flies (HF) and buffalo flies (BF), are economically important ectoparasites of dairy and beef cattle. Control of these flies relies mainly on the treatment of cattle with chemical insecticides. However, the development of resistance to commonly used compounds is compromising the effectiveness of these treatments and alternative methods of control are required. Wolbachia are maternally transmitted endosymbiotic bacteria of arthropods that cause various reproductive distortions and fitness effects, making them a potential candidate for use in the biological control of pests. RESULTS: Here we report the successful establishment of a continuous HF cell line (HIE-18) from embryonic cells and its stable transinfection with Wolbachia strain wAlbB native to mosquitoes, and wMel and wMelPop native to Drosophila melanogaster. The established HIE-18 cells are typically round and diploid with ten chromosomes (2n = 10) or tetraploid with 20 chromosomes (4n=20) having a doubling time of 67.2 hours. Wolbachia density decreased significantly in the HIE-18 cells in the first 48 hours of infection, possibly due to overexpression of antimicrobial peptides through the Imd immune signalling pathway. However, density recovered after this time and stably Wolbachia-infected HIE-18 cell lines have now all been subcultured more than 50 times as persistently infected lines. CONCLUSION: The amenability of HF to infection with different strains of Wolbachia suggests the potential for use of Wolbachia in novel approaches for the control of Haematobia spp. Further, the availability of the HIE-18 cell line will provide an important resource for the study of genetics, host-parasite interactions and chemical resistance in Haematobia populations.
mory (WM) is vulnerable to age-related decline, particularly under high loads. Visual alpha oscillations contribute to WM performance in younger adults, and although alpha decreases in power and frequency with age, it is unclear if alpha activity supports WM in older adults. We recorded electroencephalography (EEG) while 24 younger and 30 older adults performed a modified Sternberg task with varying load conditions. Regardless of age, alpha power decreased and alpha frequency increased with load during encoding, and the magnitude of alpha suppression during retention was larger at higher loads. While alpha power during retention was lower than fixation in older, but not younger adults, the relative change from fixation was not significantly different between age groups. However, individual differences in alpha power did not predict performance within age groups or WM loads. We demonstrate that between age groups, alpha power and frequency are modulated in a similar task- and load-dependent manner during WM processes, but age-related changes in alpha are not associated with poorer WM performance in older adults.
e diversity of prokaryotic genomes is contributed by the tightly controlled recombination activity of transposons (Tn). The Tn3 family is arguably one of the most widespread transposon families. Members carry a large range of passenger genes incorporated into their structures. Family members undergo replicative transposition using a DDE transposase to generate a cointegrate structure which is then resolved by site-specific recombination between specific DNA sequences (res) on each of the two Tn copies in the cointegrate. These sites also carry promoters controlling expression of the recombinase (TnpR/I/S+T) and transposase (TnpA). We report here that a number of Tn3 members encode a type II toxin-antitoxin (TA) system, typically composed of a stable toxin and a labile antitoxin that binds the toxin and inhibits its lethal activity. This system serves to improve plasmid maintenance in a bacterial population and, until recently, was believed to be associated with bacterial persistence. At least six different TA gene pairs are associated with various Tn3 members. Our data suggest that several independent acquisition events have occurred. In contrast to most Tn3 family passenger genes which are generally located away from the transposition module, the TA gene pairs abut the res site upstream of the resolvase genes. Although their role when part of Tn3 family transposons is unclear, this finding suggests a potential role for the embedded TA in stabilizing the associated transposon with the possibility that TA expression is coupled to expression of transposase and resolvase during the transposition process itself.
theories and statistical inference provide complementary approaches for the study of biological systems. A normative theory postulates that organisms have adapted to efficiently solve essential tasks, and proceeds to mathematically work out testable consequences of such optimality; parameters that maximize the hypothesized organismal function can be derived ab initio, without reference to experimental data. In contrast, statistical inference focuses on efficient utilization of data to learn model parameters, without reference to any a priori notion of biological function, utility, or fitness. Traditionally, these two approaches were developed independently and applied separately. Here we unify them in a coherent Bayesian framework that embeds a normative theory into a family of maximum-entropy &quot;optimization priors.&quot; This family defines a smooth interpolation between a data-rich inference regime (characteristic of &quot;bottom-up&quot; statistical models), and a data-limited ab inito prediction regime (characteristic of &quot;top-down&quot; normative theory). We argue that the flexibility afforded by our framework is essential to address a number of fundamental challenges relating to inference and prediction in complex, high-dimensional biological problems.
he diversity of immune receptors and pathogens, multiplex PCR has become a central approach in research and diagnostics. However, insufficient primer design against highly diverse templates often prevents amplification and therefore limits the correct understanding of biological processes. Here, we present openPrimeR, an R-based tool for evaluating and designing multiplex PCR primers. openPrimeR provides a functional and intuitive interface and uses either a greedy algorithm or an integer linear program to compute the minimal set of primers that performs full target coverage. As proof of concept, we used openPrimeR to find optimal primer sets for the amplification of highly mutated immunoglobulins. Comprehensive analyses on specifically generated immunoglobulin variable gene segment libraries resulted in the composition of highly effective primer sets (oPR-IGHV, oPR-IGKV and oPR-IGLV) that demonstrated to be particularly suitable for the isolation of novel human antibodies.
e gyrus (DG) subregion of the mammalian hippocampus mediates critical cognitive processes related to memory and is a site of continuous adult neurogenesis. The mechanisms by which diverse neuronal and non-neuronal cell populations regulate adult neurogenesis and contribute to DG function are an intense, current focus of research. Obtaining an accurate estimate of DG cellular composition is vital for understanding how distinct cell populations contribute to hippocampal function. However, most studies examine only a select few cell types, and the reported numbers vary considerably. Here, we apply consistent stereological methods within a single study to estimate cell density for the major lineages in the dorsal DG of adult mice. Using immunohistochemical phenotypic markers, we quantified cell density for radial glia-like cells, neuronal intermediate progenitors, neuroblasts/immature neurons, mature neurons, stellate astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and their progenitors, microglia, and vascular endothelial cells. The value of a unified dataset was evident when evaluating the relative abundance of different cell types. Ratios of neurons:astrocytes generated using counts of each cell type obtained from separate studies could range from approximately 4.6:1 to 113:1. In contrast, our reported estimate of roughly 12 neurons:1 astrocyte is consistent with the 9:1 ratio from previous work where both cell types were quantified within the same study. This highlights the utility of counts obtained within a single study to make accurate comparisons of relative cell type abundance. We expect the data reported here will facilitate efforts to refine hypotheses about the functional contributions of DG cell populations.
 nerve injury (PNI) impacts millions annually, often leaving debilitated patients with minimal repair options to improve functional recovery. Our group has previously developed tissue engineered nerve grafts (TENGs) featuring long, aligned axonal tracts from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons that are fabricated in custom bioreactors using the process of axon stretch-growth. We have shown that TENGs effectively serve as living scaffolds to promote regeneration across segmental nerve defects by exploiting the newfound mechanism of axon-facilitated axon regeneration (AFAR), by simultaneously providing haptic and neurotrophic support. To extend this work, the current study investigated the efficacy of living versus non-living regenerative scaffolds in preserving host sensory and motor neuron cell health, using retrograde dye transport as a proxy, following bridging of segmental nerve defects. Rats were assigned across five groups: naive or repair using autograft, nerve guidance tube (NGT) with collagen, NGT + non-aligned DRG populations in collagen, or TENGs. We found that TENG repairs yielded equivalent regenerative capacity as autograft repairs based on preserved health of host spinal cord motor neurons and acute axonal regeneration, whereas NGT repairs or DRG neurons within an NGT exhibited reduced motor neuron preservation and diminished regenerative capacity. These acute regenerative benefits ultimately resulted in enhanced levels of functional recovery in animals receiving TENGs, at levels matching those attained by autografts. Our findings indicate that when used to bridge segmental nerve defects, TENGs preserve host spinal cord motor neuron health and regenerative capacity without sacrificing an otherwise uninjured nerve (as in the case of the autograft), and therefore represent a promising alternative strategy for neurosurgical repair following PNI.
m studies show that focal anterior temporal lobe (ATL) neurodegeneration is most often caused by frontotemporal lobar degeneration TDP-43 type C pathology. Clinically, patients are inconsistently described with the terms semantic variant primary progressive aphasia (svPPA), semantic dementia (SD), or right temporal variant frontotemporal dementia (FTD) depending on whether the predominant symptoms affect language, semantic knowledge for object or people, or socio-emotional behaviors. The neuroimaging hallmark of these syndromes is ATL atrophy, with various degrees of lateralization. Cases presenting with initial right-sided atrophy are considered to be rarer than left-sided ones, yet estimation of their prevalence is hampered by the paucity of studies on well-characterized, pathology-proven cohorts. Moreover, it is not clear whether left and right variants show a similar distribution of atrophy within the ATL cross-sectionally and longitudinally. Here we study the largest cohort to-date of pathology-proven TDP-43-C cases diagnosed during life as svPPA, SD or right temporal variant FTD. We analyzed clinical, cognitive, and neuroimaging data from 30 cases, a subset of which was followed longitudinally. Guided by recent structural and functional parcellation studies, we constructed four bilateral ATL regions of interest (ROIs). The computation of an atrophy lateralization index allowed the comparison of atrophy patterns between the two hemispheres. This led to an automatic, imaging-based classification of the cases as left-predominant or right-predominant. We then compared the two groups in terms of regional atrophy patterns within the ATL ROIs (cross-sectionally) and atrophy progression (longitudinally). Results showed that 40% of pathology proven cases diagnosed with a temporal variant presented with right-lateralized atrophy. Moreover, the findings of our ATL ROI analysis indicated that, irrespective of atrophy lateralization, atrophy distribution within both ATLs follows a gradient from medial to lateral regions. Finally, in both left and right cases, atrophy appeared to progress to the contralateral ATL, and from the anterior temporal pole to posterior temporal and orbitofrontal regions. Our results indicate that both left and right predominant ATL atrophy is common in TDP-43-C pathology. Moreover, the distribution of damage within the ATL, as well as its temporal extension, are the same regardless of where the atrophy started. As pharmacological interventions become available, the ability to predict the underlying pathology and to track longitudinal changes becomes crucial and, regardless of differences in clinical phenotype, left and right temporal variants of FTD caused by TDP-43-C should be viewed as the same disease. Establishing consistent clinical criteria for focal right temporal degeneration is thus necessary to improve diagnostic accuracy in PPA and FTD.
otein dilution (DPD) promotes metabolic remodelling and health but the precise nutritional components driving this response remain elusive. Here we demonstrate that dietary amino acids (AA) are sufficient and necessary to drive the response to DPD. In particular, the restriction of dietary essential AA (EAA) supply, but not non-EAA, drives the systemic metabolic response to total AA deprivation. Furthermore, systemic deprivation of Thr and Trp, independent of total AA supply, are both adequate and necessary to confer the systemic metabolic response to both diet, and genetic AA-transport loss, driven AA restriction. Thr is also potentially limiting in low-protein diet fed humans, and dietary Thr restriction (DTR) retarded the development of obesity-associated metabolic dysfunction in mice. Liver-derived fibroblast growth factor 21 was required for the metabolic remodelling with DTR. Strikingly, hepatocyte-selective establishment of Thr biosynthetic capacity reversed the systemic response to DTR. Taken together, our studies demonstrate that the restriction of EAA are sufficient and necessary to confer the systemic metabolic effects of DPD.
s a chronic, progressive disease that calls for longitudinal data and analysis. We introduce a longitudinal mathematical model that is capable of representing the metabolic state of an individual at any point in time during their progression from normal glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes (T2D) over a period of years. As an application of the model, we account for the diversity of pathways typically followed, focusing on two extreme alternatives, one that goes through impaired fasting glucose (IFG) first, and one that goes through impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) first. These two pathways are widely recognized to stem from distinct metabolic abnormalities in hepatic glucose production and peripheral glucose uptake, respectively. We confirm this but go beyond to show that IFG and IGT lie on a continuum ranging from high hepatic insulin resistance and low peripheral insulin resistance to low hepatic resistance and high peripheral resistance. We show that IFG generally incurs IGT, and IGT generally incurs IFG on the way to T2D, highlighting the difference between innate and acquired defects and the need to assess patients early to determine their underlying primary impairment. We illustrate the relevance of this for patient stratification by simulating the effects of properly and improperly targeted therapies. The model also incorporates insulin granule exocytosis and accounts for both first and second phase secretion. Simulations suggest that the loss of first phase secretion in both the IGT-first and IFG- first pathways is only a marker of progression to diabetes, not a causative mechanism.
drenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is a genetic disease involving loss of function of the peroxisomal transporter ABCD1, resulting in an inappropriate increase in very long chain fatty acid (VLCFA) concentrations throughout the body. Elevated levels of VLCFAs in the central nervous system (CNS) cause demyelination and axonal degeneration, leading to severe neurological deficits. Sobetirome, a potent thyroid hormone agonist, and other thyromimetics have been shown to lower VLCFA levels. In this study, two pharmacological strategies for enhancing the effects of thyromimetics in the brain were tested. First, a CNS-selective thyromimetic prodrug was used to increase thyromimetic drug exposure in the CNS. Second, thyroid hormone and the thyromimetic were co-administered to increase total thyroid hormone agonism in the CNS. These strategies lowered VLCFAs by up to 60% in the periphery. In the brain and spinal cord, C26/C22 was lowered by 15-20% and C26-lysophosphatidylcholine by 25-30% in the brain and ~40% in the spinal cord. Co-administration of thyroid hormone with sobetirome led to enhanced VLCFA lowering in the periphery compared to sobetirome alone but did not produce greater lowering in the CNS. The extent of lowering in the brain was limited by a mechanistic threshold related to slow turnover kinetics, which increased thyroid hormone action could not overcome. These findings provide evidence that CNS-penetrating thyromimetics can lower VLCFAs in peripheral organs in addition to the brain and spinal cord, thereby correcting the lipid abnormality associated with X-ALD.
st people are biologically either male or female, their genetic interests are almost never aligned with just their own sex. Drawing on the evolutionary theory of inclusive fitness gained through relatives, we suggest it is possible to partition the effects of kin on fitness into those that derive from female versus male relatives. We argue that the balance of these female- and male-derived effects, which we call &quot;Gendered Fitness Interests&quot; (GFI), might influence human behavior, especially the adoption of socio-political attitudes regarding issues with a gendered dimension. Our proposal builds on previous conjectures within evolution, as well as observations from both within and beyond the evolutionary sciences that parents socio-political views covary with the sex of their children, and the numbers of relatives of each sex. Further, it is consistent with the relatively small average differences between womens and mens socio-political positions. Using simulated data, we outline a method for partitioning GFI, and derive the testable predictions that the GFI component of womens and mens socio-political attitudes will converge with age, and with larger family sizes. Our proposal does not replace or falsify other theories of sex differences and similarities, but it does formalize a previously underappreciated component of variance in traits and attitudes with a gendered dimension. In this respect, it may be generally useful in resolving the complex origins of gendered behavior, and the primacy of an individuals gender identification (including but not limited to biological sex) as a fixed and distinctive part of their socio-political identity.
orking memory is often conceived of as a unitary capacity, with memory for different auditory materials (syllables, pitches, rhythms) thought to rely on similar neural mechanisms. One spontaneous behavior observed in working memory studies is 9chunking9. For example, individuals often recount digit sequences in groups, or chunks, of 3 to 4 digits, and this chunking improves performance. Chunking may also operate in musical rhythm, with beats acting as chunk boundaries for tones in rhythmic sequences. Similar to chunking, beat-based structure in rhythms also improves performance. Thus, beat processing may rely on the same mechanisms that underlie chunking of verbal material. The current fMRI study examined whether beat perception is a type of chunking, measuring brain responses to chunked and unchunked letter sequences relative to beat-based and nonbeat-based rhythmic sequences. Participants completed a sequence discrimination task, and comparisons between stimulus encoding, maintenance, and discrimination were made for both rhythmic and verbal sequences. Overall, rhythm and verbal working memory networks overlapped substantially. When comparing rhythmic and verbal conditions, rhythms activated basal ganglia, supplementary motor area, and anterior insula, compared to letter strings, during encoding and discrimination. Letter strings compared to rhythms activated bilateral auditory cortex during encoding, and parietal cortex, precuneus, and middle frontal gyri during discrimination. Importantly, there was a significant interaction in the basal ganglia during encoding: activation for beat-based rhythms was greater than for nonbeat-based rhythms, but verbal chunked and unchunked conditions did not differ. The significant interaction indicates that beat perception is not simply a case of chunking, suggesting a dissociation between beat processing and grouping mechanisms that warrants further exploration.
 a pivotal role in ecological and biogeochemical processes and have been described as sentinels of environmental change. Assessing lake health across large geographic scales is critical to predict the stability of their ecosystem services and their vulnerability to anthropogenic disturbances. Here, we utilized surface water samples from 220 lakes located across Eastern Canada to assess the land use impact within watersheds on bacterial community composition using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Alteration of communities was found on every level examined. Specifically, increasing anthropogenic impact within the watershed lowered richness mediated by changes in chloride and nitrogen concentrations. Likewise, community composition was significantly altered by differential land use within a watershed, resulting in decreased interaction network complexity and fewer keystone taxa in highly impacted lakes. Together, these findings point to vast bacterial community changes of largely unknown consequences induced by human activity within lake watersheds.
Logistic growth models have been widely used as basic equations to describe cell growth in bioprocess engineering. In the case for Monod equation, specific growth rate is governed by a limiting nutrient, with the mathematical form similar to the Michaelis-Menten equation. In the case for Logistic equation, specific growth rate is determined by the carrying capacity of the system, which could be growth-inhibiting factors (i.e. toxic chemical accumulation) other than the nutrient level. Both equations have been found valuable to guide us build structure-based kinetic models to analyze fermentation process and understand cell physiology. In this work, we present a hybrid Logistic-Monod growth model, which accounts for multiple growth-dependence factors including both the limiting nutrient and the carrying capacity of the system. Coupled with substrate consumption and yield coefficient, we present the analytical solutions for this hybrid Logistic-Monod model in both batch and CSTR culture. Under high biomass yield (Yx/s) conditions, the analytical solution for this hybrid model is approaching to the Logistic equation; under low biomass yield condition, the analytical solution for this hybrid model converges to the Monod equation. This hybrid Logistic-Monod equation represents the cell growth transition from substrate-limiting condition to growth-inhibiting condition, which could be adopted to accurately describe the multi-phases of cell growth and may facilitate kinetic model construction, bioprocess optimization and scale-up in industrial biotechnology.
n/glucose-sensitizing properties of specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) are emerging. We investigated the role of resolvin E1 (RvE1) and its parent molecule eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on insulin/glucose homeostasis. We first identified a decrease in the RvE1 precursor 18-hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acid in obese male C57BL/6J mice. Therefore, we investigated the effects of intraperitoneal administration of exogenous RvE1 on obese inbred and outbred male mice. RvE1 administered to obese C57BL/6J mice for just four days improved hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, which was partially dependent on the receptor ERV1/ChemR23.  In contrast, RvE1s effects on fasting insulin/glucose were divergent in diversity outbred mice modeling human genetic variation.  Next, we studied the preventative effects of pure dietary EPA ethyl esters on obese C57BL/6J mice. EPA ameliorated obesity-induced glucose intolerance, hyperinsulinemia, and hyperglycemia and this was independent from remodeling of the gut microbiome. Supporting analyses of NHANES data revealed that glucose levels were inversely related with EPA intake in obese adults in a sex-specific manner. Finally, secondary SNP analyses revealed extensive genetic variation of human EPA- and RvE1-metabolizing genes. Collectively, the data underscore the importance of the resolvin E1-EPA axis in controlling insulin/glucose homeostasis and point to a therapeutic role for RvE1 that depends on the host genome.
ssion differences between species are driven by both cis and trans effects. Whereas cis effects are caused by genetic variants in close proximity to the target gene, trans effects are due to distal genetic variants that affect diffusible elements such as transcription factors. Previous studies have mostly assessed the impact of cis and trans effects at the gene level. However, how cis and trans effects differentially impact regulatory elements such as enhancers and promoters remains poorly understood. Here, we used massively parallel reporter assays to directly measure cis and trans effects between human and mouse embryonic stem cells at thousands of individual regulatory elements. Our approach revealed that cis effects are widespread across regulatory elements, and the strongest cis effects are associated with the disruption of motifs recognized by strong transcriptional activators. Conversely, we found that trans effects are rare but stronger in enhancers than promoters, and can be attributed to a subset of transcription factors that are differentially expressed between human and mouse. While previous studies have found extensive co-occurrence of cis and trans effects in opposite directions that stabilize gene expression throughout evolution, we find that cis-trans compensation is uncommon within individual regulatory elements. Thus, our results are consistent with a model wherein compensatory cis-trans effects at the gene level are explained by cis and trans effects that separately impact several regulatory elements rather than cis-trans effects that occur simultaneously within a single regulatory element. Together, these results indicate that studying the evolution of individual regulatory elements is pivotal to understand the tempo and mode of gene expression evolution.
rm a single-celled zygote into an adult multicellular organism, development employs three basic processes--asymmetric cell division, signaling and gene regulation. These three processes can be combined in a multitude of ways, thus generating the huge diversity of plant and animal forms we see today. The wealth of possible developmental schemes created by this combinatorial explosion is hard to survey and understand. Here, with a generative Boolean model, we demonstrate and systematically chart the extent of diversity that development can potentially produce. Our results indicate that, in contrast to common views, cell-type lineage graphs are unlikely to be tree-like. Additionally, in line with the hypothesis that whole body regeneration is an epiphenomenon of development, a majority of the organisms generated by our model can regenerate using pluripotent cells.
g the germline would increase the number of offspring that can be produced from selected animals, accelerating genetic improvement for livestock breeding. This could be achieved by producing multiple chimaeric animals, each carrying a mix of donor and host germ cells in their gonads. However, such chimaeric germlines would produce offspring from both donor and host genotypes, limiting the rate of genetic improvement. To resolve this problem and produce chimaeras with absolute donor germline transmission, we have disrupted the RNA-binding protein  DAZL  and generated germ cell-deficient host animals. Using Cas9 mediated homology-directed repair (HDR), we introduced a  DAZL  loss-of-function mutation in male ovine fetal fibroblasts. Following manual single-cell isolation, 4/48 (8.3%) of donor cell strains were homozygously HDR-edited. Sequence-validated strains were used as nuclear donors for somatic cell cloning to generate three lambs, which died at birth. All  DAZL -null male neonatal sheep lacked germ cells. Somatic cells within their testes were morphologically intact and expressed normal levels of somatic cell-specific marker genes, indicating that the germ cell niche remained intact. This extends the  DAZL -mutant phenotype beyond mice into agriculturally relevant ruminants, providing a pathway for using absolute transmitters in rapid livestock improvement.
risk scores (PRSs) have become an increasingly popular approach for demonstrating polygenic influences on complex traits and for establishing common polygenic signals between different traits. PRSs are typically constructed using pruning and thresholding (P+T), but the best choice of parameters is uncertain; thus multiple settings are used and the best is chosen. This optimization can lead to inflated type I error. To correct this, permutation procedures can be used but they can be computationally intensive. Alternatively, a single parameter setting can be chosen a priori for the PRS, but choosing suboptimal settings result in loss of power. We propose computing PRSs under a range of parameter settings, performing principal component analysis (PCA) on the resulting set of PRSs, and using the first PRS-PC in association tests. The first PC reweights the variants included in the PRS with new weights to achieve maximum variation over all PRS settings used. Using simulations, we compare the performance of the proposed PRS-PCA approach with a permutation test and a priori selection of p-value threshold. We then apply the approach to the Mayo Clinic Bipolar Disorder Biobank study to test for PRS association with psychosis using a variety of PRSs constructed from summary statistics from the largest studies of psychiatric disorders and related traits. The PRS-PCA approach is simple to implement, outperforms the other strategies in most scenarios, and provides an unbiased estimate of prediction performance. We therefore recommend it to be used PRS association studies where multiple phenotypes and/or PRSs are being investigated.
 difficulty of tracking microbial dispersal, it rarely possible to disentangle the relative importance of dispersal and species sorting for microbial community assembly. Here, we leverage a detailed multilevel network to examine drivers of bacterial community assembly within flowers. We show that plant species with similar visitor communities tend to have similar bacterial communities, and visitor identity to be more important than dispersal rate in structuring floral bacterial communities. However, plants occupied divergent positions in plant-insect and plant-microbe networks, suggesting an important role for species sorting. Taken together, our analyses suggest dispersal is important in determining similarity in microbial communities across plant species, but not as important in determining structural features of the floral bacterial network. A multilevel network approach thus allows us to address features of community assembly that cannot be considered when viewing networks as separate entities.
ffect senescence---a decline in offspring fitness with maternal age---has been demonstrated in a range of taxa, including humans. Despite decades of phenotypic studies, it remains unclear how maternal effect senescence impacts population structure or evolutionary fitness. To understand the impact of maternal effect senescence on population dynamics, fitness, and selection, we used data from individual-based culture experiments on the microscopic aquatic invertebrate,  Brachionus manjavacas  (Rotifera), to develop a series of matrix population models in which individuals are classified jointly by age and maternal age. By comparing the results derived from models with and without maternal effects, we found that the fitness difference due to maternal effect senescence arises primarily through decreased fertility, particularly at maternal ages corresponding to the peak reproductive output. In all models, selection gradients decrease with increasing age. They also decrease with maternal age for large maternal ages, implying that maternal effect senescence can evolve through the same process as in Hamilton9s theory of the evolution of demographic senescence. We find that maternal effect senescence significantly alters population structure and fitness for  B. manjavacas , a species with high maternal investment and maximum reproduction in early- to mid-life. The models developed here were built with data from an emerging model organism, and are widely applicable to evaluate the fitness consequences of maternal effect senescence across species with diverse aging and fertility schedule phenotypes.
markedly reduced working memory-related serial dependence with preserved memory accuracy in anti-NMDAR encephalitis and schizophrenia. We argue that NMDAR-related changes in cortical excitation, while quickly destabilizing persistent neural activity, cannot fully account for a reduction of memory-dependent biases. Rather, our modeling results support a disruption of a memory mechanism operating on a longer timescale, such as short-term potentiation.
AAV-mediated gene delivery remains a significant obstacle to effective retinal gene therapies. Here, we apply directed evolution - guided by deep sequencing and followed by direct in vivo secondary selection of high-performing vectors with a GFP-barcoded library - to create AAV viral capsids with new capabilities to deliver genes to the outer retina in primates. A replication incompetent library, produced via providing rep in trans, was created to mitigate risk of AAV propagation. Six rounds of in vivo selection with this library in primates, involving intravitreal library administration, recovery of genomes from outer retina, and extensive next generation sequencing of each round, resulted in vectors with redirected tropism to the outer retina and increased gene delivery efficiency to retinal cells. These new viral vectors expand the toolbox of vectors available for primate retina, and may enable less invasive delivery of therapeutic genes to patients, potentially offering retina-wide infection at a similar dosage to vectors currently in clinical use.
molecular imaging to guide curative cancer surgeries is critical to ensure removal of all tumor cells, however visualization of microscopic tumor foci remains challenging. Wide variation in both imager instrumentation and molecular labeling agents demands a common metric conveying the ability of a system to identify tumor cells. Microscopic disease, comprised of a small number of tumor cells, has a signal on par with the background, making the use of signal (or tumor) to background ratio inapplicable in this critical regime. Therefore, a metric that incorporates the ability to subtract out background, evaluating the signal itself relative to the sources of uncertainty, or noise is required. Here we introduce the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to characterize the ultimate sensitivity of an imaging system, and optimize factors such as pixel size. Variation in the background (noise) are due to electronic sources, optical sources, and spatial sources (heterogeneity in tumor marker expression, fluorophore binding, diffusion). Here we investigate the impact of these noise sources and ways to limit its effect on SNR. We use empirical tumor and noise measurements to procedurally generate tumor images and run a monte carlo simulation of microscopic disease imaging to optimize parameters such as pixel size.
rown (2017) recently addressed the effects of restoration on stream communities under the meta-community framework. Using a combination of headwater and mainstem streams, Swan and Brown (2017) evaluated how position within a stream network affected the outcome of restoration on invertebrate communities. Ostensibly, their hypotheses were partially supported as restoration had stronger effects in headwater streams: invertebrate taxonomic richness was increased and temporal variability decreased in restored reaches; however, these results were not consistent upon closer scrutiny for both the original paper (Swan and Brown 2017) and the later erratum (Swan and Brown 2018). Here, I provide a secondary analysis of the data, with hypotheses and interpretations in the context of stream, restoration, and metacommunity ecology. I did not find any effects of restoration on local diversity, spatial dissimilarity, or temporal variability, let alone differential effects of restoration between headwaters and mainstems; these results are contrary Swan and Brown (2017, 2018), who reported that restoration increased taxonomic richness, increased spatial dissimilarity, and decreased temporal variability in restored headwater streams. I demonstrate further that the statistical tests conducted by Swan and Brown (2017, 2018) were invalid and, therefore, recommend use of the results presented here. More broadly, I suggest that river and stream restoration will likely have greater success if a regional approach is taken to designing and implementing restoration projects.
: Zoonotic tuberculosis (zTB) is the transmission of  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  complex (MTBC) subspecies from animals to humans. zTB is generally quantified by determining the proportion of human isolates that are  Mycobacterium bovis . Although India has the world9s largest number of human TB cases and the largest cattle population, where bovine TB is endemic, the burden of zTB is unknown. Methods: To obtain estimates of zTB in India, a PCR-based approach was applied to sub-speciate positive MGIT cultures from 940 patients (548 pulmonary, 392 extrapulmonary disease) at a large referral hospital in India. Twenty-five isolates of interest were subject to whole genome sequencing (WGS) and compared with 715 publicly available MTBC sequences from South Asia. Findings: A conclusive identification was obtained for 939 samples; wildtype  M. bovis  was not identified (95% CI: 0  0.4%). There were 912  M. tuberculosis sensu stricto  (97.0%, 95% CI: 95.7  98.0), 7  M. orygis  (95% CI: 0.3  1.5%); 5  M. bovis  BCG, and 15 non-tuberculous mycobacteria. WGS analysis of 715 MTBC sequences again identified no  M. bovis  (95% CI: 0  0.4%). Human and cattle MTBC isolates were interspersed within the  M. orgyis  and  M. tuberculosis sensu stricto  lineages. Interpretation:  M. bovis  prevalence in humans is an inadequate proxy of zTB in India. The recovery of  M. orygis  from humans, together with the finding of  M. tuberculosis  in cattle, underscores the need for One Health investigations to assess the burden of zTB in countries with endemic bovine TB. Funding: Bill &amp;amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, Canadian Institutes for Health Research
control is typically understood as a set of mechanisms which enable humans to reach goals that require integrating the consequences of actions over longer time scales. Importantly, using routine beheavior or making choices beneficial only at a short time scales would prevent one from attaining these goals. During the past two decades, researchers have proposed various computational cognitive models that successfully account for behaviour related to cognitive control in a wide range of laboratory tasks. As humans operate in a dynamic and uncertain environment, making elaborate plans and integrating experience over multiple time scales is computationally expensive, the specific question of how uncertain consequences at different time scales are integrated into adaptive decisions remains poorly understood. Here, we propose that precisely the problem of integrating experience and forming elaborate plans over multiple time scales is a key component for better understanding how human agents solve cognitive control dilemmas such as the exploration-exploitation dilemma. In support of this conjecture, we present a computational model of probabilistic inference over hidden states and actions, which are represented as a hierarchy of time scales. Simulations of goal-reaching agents instantiating the model in an uncertain and dynamic task environment show how the exploration-exploitation dilemma may be solved by inferring meta-control states which adapt behaviour to changing contexts.
dels of decision-making assume that the brain gradually accumulates evidence and drifts towards a threshold which, once crossed, results in a choice selection. These models have been especially successful in primate research, however transposing them to human fMRI paradigms has proved challenging.  Here, we exploit the face-selective visual system and test whether decoded emotional facial features from multivariate fMRI signals during a dynamic perceptual decision-making task are related to the parameters of computational models of decision-making.  We show that trial-by-trial variations in the pattern of neural activity in the fusiform gyrus reflect facial emotional information and modulate drift rates during deliberation. We also observed an inverse-urgency signal based in the caudate nucleus that was independent of sensory information but appeared to slow decisions, particularly when information in the task was ambiguous.  Taken together, our results characterize how decision parameters from a computational model (i.e., drift rate and urgency signal) are involved in perceptual decision-making and reflected in the activity of the human brain.
ster  Crassostrea gigas , endemic to coastal Asia, has been translocated globally throughout the past century, resulting in self-sustaining introduced populations (naturalized). The oyster aquaculture industry depends on commercially available seed (hatchery-farmed) or naturalized oysters that can be moved onto a farm (naturalized-farmed), making it critical to understand patterns of genetic variation among populations and farm types. Here we genotype wild or naturalized populations from France, Japan, China, and most extensively in coastal British Columbia, Canada. We also genotype cultured populations from throughout the Northern Hemisphere to compare with naturalized populations. In total, 16,942 markers were identified using double-digest RAD-sequencing in 182 naturalized, 112 hatchery-farmed, and 72 naturalized-farmed oysters (total = 362 individuals). Very low genetic differentiation was observed around Vancouver Island (mean FST = 0.0019), and low differentiation between countries in Japan, France, and Canada (France-Canada FST = 0.0024; Japan-Canada FST = 0.0060), all of which are in the same historical translocation lineage. Chinese populations had much higher FST (China-Japan FST = 0.0241). Hatchery-propagated populations had higher inter-individual relatedness suggesting family structure. Within-population inbreeding was not detected on farms, but nucleotide diversity and polymorphism rate were both lower in some farms. Moving oysters from nature onto farms did not result in strong within-generation selection. Private alleles were identified in several hatchery populations grown in BC, suggesting non-local origins. Putative domestication outliers were identified throughout the genome, with some identified consistently on multiple farms. These top outlier candidates were nearby genes involved in calcium signaling and calmodulin activity. Implications of potential introgression from hatchery-farmed oysters depends on whether naturalized populations are considered as a valuable, locally-adapted resource or as an introduced, invasive species, but given the value of the industry in BC and the challenges the industry faces (e.g., climate change, crop losses, abiotic/biotic stressors), this remains an important question.
ory system is uniquely heterogeneous, performing multifaceted functions (beyond basic sensory processing) across diverse, widely distributed neural substrates. While knowledge of human olfaction continues to grow, it remains unclear how the olfactory network is organized to serve this unique set of functions. Leveraging a large and high-quality resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) dataset of nearly 900 participants from the Human Connectome Project (HCP), we identified a human olfactory network encompassing cortical and subcortical regions across the temporal and frontal lobes. Highlighting its reliability and generalizability, the connectivity matrix of this olfactory network mapped closely onto that extracted from an independent rs-fMRI dataset. Graph theoretical analysis further explicated the organizational principles of the network. The olfactory network exhibits a functionally advantageous modular composition of three (i.e., the sensory, limbic, and frontal) subnetworks and demonstrates strong small-world properties, high in both global integration and local segregation (i.e., circuit specialization). This network organization thus ensures the segregation of local circuits, which are nonetheless integrated via connecting hubs (i.e., amygdala and anterior insula), thereby enabling the specialized, yet integrative, functions of olfaction. In particular, the degree of local segregation positively predicted olfactory discrimination performance in the independent sample. In sum, an olfactory functional network has been identified through the large HCP dataset, affording a representative template of the human olfactory functional neuroanatomy. Importantly, the topological analysis of the olfactory network provides network-level insights into the remarkable functional specialization and spatial segregation of the olfactory system.
l work predicts that sexual selection can enhance natural selection, increasing the rate of adaptation to new environments and helping purge harmful mutations. While some experiments support these predictions, remarkably little work has addressed the role of sexual selection on compensatory adaptation--populations9 ability to compensate for the costs of deleterious alleles that are already present. We tested whether sexual selection, as well as the degree of standing genetic variation, affect the rate of compensatory evolution via phenotypic suppression in experimental populations of  Drosophila melanogaster . These populations were fixed for a spontaneous mutation causing mild abnormalities in the male sex comb, a structure important for mating success. We fine-mapped this mutation to an ~85 kb region on the X chromosome containing three candidate genes, showed that the mutation is deleterious, and that its phenotypic expression and penetrance vary by genetic background. We then performed experimental evolution, including a treatment where opportunity for mate choice was limited by experimentally enforced monogamy. Although evolved populations did show some phenotypic suppression of the morphological abnormalities in the sex comb, the amount of suppression did not depend on the opportunity for sexual selection. Sexual selection, therefore, may not always enhance natural selection; instead, the interaction between these two forces may depend on additional factors.
ome in an array of shapes and sizes, but the mechanisms underlying diverse morphologies are poorly understood. The peptidoglycan (PG) cell wall is the primary determinant of cell shape. At the molecular level, much of the studied morphological variation results from the regulation of PG synthesis enzymes involved in elongation and division. These enzymes are spatially controlled by cytoskeletal scaffolding proteins, such as FtsZ, MreB, and DivIVA, that both recruit and organize the PG synthesis complex. How then do cells define alternative morphogenic processes that are distinct from cell elongation and division? To address this question, we have turned to the specific morphotype of Alphaproteobacterial prosthecae, or &quot;stalks&quot;. Stalk synthesis is a specialized form of zonal growth, which requires PG synthesis in a spatially constrained zone to extend a thin cylindrical projection of the cell envelope. The morphogen SpmX defines the site of stalk PG synthesis, but SpmX is a PG hydrolase. How then does a non-cytoskeletal protein, SpmX, define and constrain PG synthesis to form stalks? Here we report that SpmX and the bactofilin BacA act in concert to regulate stalk synthesis in Asticcacaulis biprosthecum. We show that SpmX acts to recruit BacA to the site of stalk synthesis. BacA then serves as a stalk-specific topological organizer that anchors the PG synthesis complex, including its recruiter SpmX, to the base of the stalk, where stalk PG synthesis occurs. In the absence of BacA, cells produce &quot;pseudostalks&quot; that are the result of unconstrained PG synthesis correlated with the mislocalization of SpmX. Finally, we show that BacA is required to inhibit the default function of PG synthesis machinery in cell elongation/division and to prevent DNA entry at the site of stalk synthesis defined by SpmX. Therefore, the protein responsible for recruitment of a morphogenic PG remodeling complex is uncoupled from the protein that topologically organizes the complex.
s with congenital amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing. Accordingly, they downweight pitch cues during speech perception (even large, obvious ones), and instead rely on other dimensions like duration. We investigated the neural basis for this strategy. Using fMRI, individuals with amusia and controls (N=30) were scanned while they used pitch and duration cues to match auditory and visual sentences. A data-driven analysis procedure identified four 9seed9 regions showing large Control &amp;gt; Amusic functional connectivity differences in lateral prefrontal cortex, which were examined with respect to the rest of the brain. Prominent decreases in functional connectivity were detected in the amusia group, between left prefrontal language-related regions (inferior and middle frontal gyrus/DLPFC) and right hemisphere pitch-related regions (auditory and anterior insular cortex). Our results suggest that individuals compensate for differences in the reliability of perceptual dimensions by regulating functional connectivity between task-relevant frontal and perceptual regions.
 stem cell derived neurons for cell-based therapies is limited by a protracted maturation. We present a novel approach for accelerating the post-mitotic maturation of human stem cell derived interneurons via the activation of mTOR signaling. Lox sites were placed within PTEN, a key mTOR inhibitor, in a cortical interneuron (CIn) reporter line. Following directed differentiation and purification by FACS, the CIns were exposed to Cre-expressing lentivirus, then transplanted into mouse neocortex or plated onto cultured rat neocortex. Input synaptogenesis and dendritogenesis was greatly enhanced in the PTEN-deleted CIns. Whole-cell recording of the PTEN-deleted CIns in slices of transplanted neocortex revealed multiple indices of enhanced maturation. Finally, we observed similar effects using transient, doxycycline-inducible activation of AKT. We thus present an inducible, reversible approach for accelerating the maturation of human stem cell derived CIns, and to study the influences of this disease-related signaling system in human neurons.
tion of in vivo high-resolution micro-computed tomography (CT), a powerful tool for longitudinal analysis of murine lung disease models, is hampered by the lack of data on cumulative low-dose radiation effects on the investigated disease models. We aimed to measure radiation doses and effects of repeated CT scans, to establish cumulative radiation levels and scan protocols without relevant toxicity. Lung metastasis, inflammation and fibrosis models and healthy mice were weekly scanned over one-month with CT using high-resolution respiratory-gated 4D and expiration- weighted 3D protocols, comparing 5-times weekly scanned animals with controls. Radiation dose was measured by ionization chamber, optical fiberradioluminescence probe and thermoluminescent detectors in a mouse phantom. Dose effects were evaluated by in vivo CT and bioluminescence imaging read-outs, gold standard endpoint evaluation and blood cell counts. Weekly exposure to 4D CT, dose of 540-699 mGy/scan, did not alter lung metastatic load nor affected healthy mice. We found a disease-independent decrease in circulating blood platelets and lymphocytes after repeated 4D CT. This effect was eliminated by optimizing a 3D protocol, reducing dose to 180-233 mGy/scan while maintaining equally high-quality images. We established CT safety limits and protocols for weekly repeated whole-body acquisitions with proven safety for the overall health status, lung, disease process and host responses under investigation, including the radiosensitive blood cell compartment.
n Swine Fever Virus causes haemorrhagic fever in domestic pigs and presents the biggest global threat to animal farming in recorded history. Despite its importance, very little is known the mechanisms and temporal regulation of transcription in ASFV. Here we report the first detailed viral transcriptome analysis of ASFV during early and late infection of Vero cells. In addition to total RNA sequencing, we have characterised the transcription start sites and transcription termination sites at nucleotide-resolution, revealing the distinct DNA consensus motifs of early and late promoters, as well as the sequence determinants for transcription termination. ASFV can utilise alternative promoters to generate distinct proteins from the same transcription unit that differ with respect to the polypeptide N terminus. Finally, our results reveal that the ASFV-RNAP undergoes transcript slippage at the 59 end of transcription units that in a promoter sequence-specific manner results in the addition of 59-AT and 5-ATAT tails to mRNAs.
stoma (MB), which originates from embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs) or neural precursors in the developing cerebellum, is the most common malignant brain tumor of childhood. Recurrent and metastatic disease is the principal cause of death and may be related to resistance within cancer stem cells (CSCs). Chromatin state is involved in maintaining signaling pathways related to stemness, and inhibition of histone deacetylase enzymes (HDAC) has emerged as a therapeutic tool to target this cell population. Here, we observed changes in the stemness phenotype induced by HDAC inhibition in MB. Analyses of MB tumor samples showed that the stemness markers BMI1 and CD133 are expressed in all molecular subgroups of MB. We then treated human MB cells with the HDAC inhibitor (HDACi) sodium butyrate (NaB). Increased acetylation mediated by NaB reduced cell viability and expression of BMI1 and CD133. Activation of extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling was also decreased after treatment with NaB. Enrichment analysis of genes associated with CD133 or BMI1 expression showed mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK signaling and related pathways as the most enriched processes. We went on to use the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126 to explore the role of MAPK/ERK pathway. MEK inhibition reduced expression of the stemness markers, hindered MB neurosphere formation, and its antiproliferative effect was enhanced by combination with NaB. These results suggest that combining HDAC and MAPK/ERK inhibitors may be more effective in reducing MB proliferation than single-drug treatments, through modulation of the stemness phenotype of MB cells.
phila obscura  species group is one of the most studied clades of Drosophila and harbors multiple distinct karyotypes. Here we present a de novo genome assembly and annotation of  D. bifasciata , a species which represents an important subgroup for which no high-quality chromosome-level genome assembly currently exists. We combined long-read sequencing (Nanopore) and Hi-C scaffolding to achieve a highly contiguous genome assembly approximately 193Mb in size, with repetitive elements constituting 30.1% of the total length.  Drosophila bifasciata  harbors four large metacentric chromosomes and the small dot, and our assembly contains each chromosome in a single scaffold, including the highly repetitive pericentromere, which were largely composed of Jockey and Gypsy transposable elements. We annotated a total of 12,821 protein-coding genes and comparisons of synteny with  D. athabasca  orthologs show that the large metacentric pericentromeric regions of multiple chromosomes are conserved between these species. Importantly, Muller A (X chromosome) was found to be metacentric in  D. bifasciata  and the pericentromeric region appears homologous to the pericentromeric region of the fused Muller A-AD (XL and XR) of  pseudoobscura/affinis  subgroup species. Our finding suggests a metacentric ancestral X fused to a telocentric Muller D and created the large neo-X (Muller A-AD) chromosome ~15 MYA. We also confirm the fusion of Muller C and D in  D. bifasciata  and show that it likely involved a centromere-centromere fusion.
vember 12th, 2019. The conclusions of this pre-print are outdated. See Authors note on page 2. CRISPR/Cas technologies have transformed our ability to manipulate genomes for research and gene-based therapy. In particular, homology-directed repair after genomic cleavage allows for precise modification of genes using exogenous donor sequences as templates. While both single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) forms of donors have been used as repair templates, a systematic comparison of the performance and specificity of repair using ssDNA versus dsDNA donors is still lacking. Here, we describe an optimized method for the synthesis of long ssDNA templates and demonstrate that ssDNA donors can drive efficient integration of gene-sized reporters in human cell lines. We next define a set of rules to maximize the efficiency of ssDNA-mediated knock-in by optimizing donor design. Finally, by comparing ssDNA donors with equivalent dsDNA sequences (PCR products or plasmids), we demonstrate that ssDNA templates have a unique advantage in terms of repair specificity while dsDNA donors can lead to a high rate of off-target integration. Our results provide a framework for designing high-fidelity CRISPR-based knock-in experiments, in both research and therapeutic settings.
ry integration areas such as dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) and ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas in macaques combine visual and vestibular cues to produce better estimates of self-motion. Congruent and opposite neurons, two types of neurons found in these areas, prefer congruent inputs and opposite inputs from the two modalities, respectively.  A recently proposed computational model of congruent and opposite neurons reproduces their tuning properties and shows that congruent neurons optimally integrate information while opposite neurons compute disparity information. However, the connections in the network are fixed rather than learned, and in fact the connections of opposite neurons, as we will show, cannot arise from Hebbian learning rules. We therefore propose a new model of multisensory integration in which congruent neurons and opposite neurons emerge through Hebbian and anti-Hebbian learning rules, and show that these neurons exhibit experimentally observed tuning properties.
y to recognise objects in peripheral vision is fundamentally limited by crowding, the deleterious effect of clutter that disrupts the recognition of features ranging from orientation and colour to motion and depth. Prior research is equivocal on whether this reflects a singular process that disrupts all features simultaneously or multiple processes that affect each independently. We examined crowding for motion and colour, two features that allow a strong test of feature independence. &quot;Cowhide&quot; stimuli were presented 15 degrees in peripheral vision, either in isolation or surrounded by flankers to give crowding. Observers reported either the target hue (blue/purple) or its direction (clockwise/counterclockwise from upwards). We first established that both features show systematic crowded errors (predominantly biased towards the flanker identities) and selectivity for target-flanker similarity (with reduced crowding for dissimilar target/flanker elements). The multiplicity of crowding was then tested with observers identifying both features: a singular object-selective mechanism predicts that when crowding is weak for one feature and strong for the other that crowding should be all-or-none for both. In contrast, when crowding was weak for colour and strong for motion, errors were reduced for colour but remained for motion, and vice versa with weak motion and strong colour crowding. This double dissociation follows the predictions of independent crowding processes, suggesting that crowding can disrupt vision in a feature-specific manner. The ability to recognise one aspect of a cluttered scene, like colour, thus offers no guarantees for the correct recognition of other aspects, like motion.
vior relationships that could provide insight into risk-associated pathophysiology have not been thoroughly assessed in anorexia nervosa (AN). Therefore, we sought to identify grey and white matter signatures of AN symptoms and risk factors (trait anxiety, set-shifting impairment) in a sample enriched for AN vulnerability, including acute and remitted AN patients and their unaffected sisters (n = 72, aged 18 - 48 years). MRI/DTI data were acquired on a 3T scanner and processed with Freesurfer and FSL TBSS. Relationships between clinical variables of interest and regional subcortical volume, vertex-wise cortical surface architecture (thickness, surface area, local gyrification), and voxel-wise white matter microstructure (FA, MD) were tested with separate linear regressions, including age, BMI, lifetime AN diagnosis, and intracranial volume as covariates, where appropriate. Significance was determined using a Bonferroni-corrected threshold, p(t)  0.001. We detected distinct associations linking AN symptoms to lateral occipital cortical thickness and insular/cingulate gyrification and trait anxiety to lingual cortical thickness and superior parietal gyrification, and we detected overlapping associations linking AN symptoms and set-shifting impairment to frontoparietal gyrification. No other brain-behavior relationships emerged. Our findings suggest that variations in site-specific cortical morphology could give rise to core features of AN and shared temperamental and cognitive-behavioral risk factors for AN. Keywords = eating disorders, anorexia nervosa, neuroimaging, magnetic resonance imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, grey matter, white matter
n is pivotal for society to flourish and prosper. To ease cooperation, humans express and read emotions and intentions via explicit signals or subtle reflections of arousal visible in the face. Evidence is accumulating that humans synchronize these nonverbal expressions, as well as the physiological mechanisms underlying them, potentially promoting cooperative behavior. The current study is designed to verify the existence of this putative linkage between synchrony and cooperation. To that extent, 152 participants played multiple rounds of the Prisoner9s Dilemma game in a naturalistic dyadic interaction setting. During one round of games they could see each other, and during a second round they could not. The results showed that when people9s heart rate and skin conductance level aligned, they cooperated more successfully. Interestingly, for skin conductance level synchrony to boost cooperation, face to face contact was essential. The effect of heart rate synchrony on cooperation was context independent. Skin conductance level, but not heart rate, tended to closely correlate with changes in pupil size and we discuss how the pupil might provide a window to partners9 sympathetic arousal. These findings show how unconscious mechanisms guide social behavior and emphasize the importance of studying social processes between rather than within individuals in real-life interactions.
tic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) differentiate from hemogenic endothelial (HE) cells through an endothelial to hematopoietic cell transition (EHT). Newly formed HSPCs accumulate in intra-arterial clusters (IACs) before colonizing the fetal liver. To examine the cell and molecular transitions during the EHT, and the heterogeneity of HSPCs within IACs, we profiled ~37,000 cells from the caudal arteries of embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) to E11.5 mouse embryos by single-cell transcriptome and chromatin accessibility sequencing. We identified an intermediate developmental stage prior to HE that we termed pre-HE, characterized by increased accessibility of chromatin enriched for SOX, FOX, GATA, and SMAD motifs. A developmental bottleneck separates pre-HE from HE, with RUNX1 dosage regulating the efficiency of the pre-HE to HE transition. Distinct developmental trajectories within IAC cells result in two populations of CD45+ HSPCs; an initial wave of lympho-myeloid-biased progenitors, followed by precursors of hematopoietic stem cells (pre-HSCs).
and delivery of (nanoscale) materials are crucial for many applications in biomedicine. However, controlled uptake, transport and triggered release of such cargo remains challenging. In this study, we use human immune cells (neutrophilic granulocytes, neutrophils) and program them to perform these tasks in vitro. For this purpose, we let neutrophils phagocytose a nanoscale cargo. As an example, we used DNA-functionalized single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) that fluoresce in the near infrared (980 nm) and serve as sensors for small molecules. Cells still migrate, follow chemical gradients and respond to inflammatory signals after uptake of the cargo. To program release, we make use of neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis), a novel cell death mechanism that leads to chromatin swelling and subsequent rupture of the cellular membrane and release of the cell9s whole content. By using the process of NETosis we can program the time point of cargo release via the initial concentration of stimuli such as phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS). At intermediate stimulation with LPS (100 microgram/ml), cells continue to migrate, follow gradients and surface cues for around 30 minutes and up to several hundred micrometers until they stop and release their cargo. The transported and released SWCNT sensor cargo is still functional as shown by subsequent detection of the neurotransmitter dopamine and reactive oxygen species (H2O2). In summary, we hijack a biological process (NETosis) and demonstrate how neutrophils can be used for programmed transport and delivery of functional nanomaterials.
ydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX/MS) is well-established for the analysis of the structure and dynamics of proteins, it is currently not exploited for nucleic acids. Here we used DNA G-quadruplex structures as model systems to demonstrate that DNA oligonucleotides are amenable to in-solution HDX/MS in native conditions. In trimethylammonium acetate solutions and in soft source conditions, the protonated phosphate groups are fully back-exchanged in the source, while the exchanged nucleobases remain labeled without detectable gas-phase back-exchange. As a result, the exchange rates depend strongly on the secondary structure (hydrogen bonding status) of the oligonucleotides, but neither on their charge state nor on the presence of non-specific adducts. We show that native mass spectrometry methods can measure these exchange rates on the second to the day time scale with high precision. Such combination of HDX with native MS opens promising avenues for the analysis of the structural and biophysical properties of oligonucleotides and their complexes.
proteins are involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes. Human PIEZO1 and PIEZO2 are newly identified excitatory mechano-sensitive proteins; they are non-selective ion channels that exhibit a preference for calcium in response to mechanical stimuli. To further understand the function of these proteins, we investigated the roles of  pezo-1 , the sole PIEZO ortholog in  C. elegans .  pezo-1  is expressed throughout development in  C. elegans , with strong expression in reproductive tissues. A number of deletion alleles as well as a putative gain-of-function mutant caused severe defects in reproduction. A reduced brood size was observed in the strains depleted of PEZO-1. In vivo observations show that oocytes undergo a variety of transit defects as they enter and exit the spermatheca during ovulation. Post ovulation oocytes were frequently damaged during spermathecal contraction. Calcium signaling in the spermatheca is normal during ovulation in  pezo-1  mutants, however,  pezo-1  interacts genetically with known regulators of calcium signaling. Lastly, loss of PEZO-1 caused defective sperm navigation after being pushed out of the spermatheca during ovulation. Mating with males rescued these reproductive deficiencies in our  pezo-1  mutants. These findings suggest that PEZO-1 may act in different reproductive tissues to promote proper ovulation and fertilization in  C. elegans .
xhibit complex dynamics across a vast range of time and length scales, from the atomistic to the conformational. Adenylate kinase (ADK) showcases the biological relevance of such inherently coupled dynamics across scales: single mutations can affect large-scale protein motions and enzymatic activity. Here we present a combined computational and experimental study of multiscale structure and dynamics in proteins, using ADK as our system of choice.  We show how a computationally efficient method for unsupervised graph partitioning can be applied to atomistic graphs derived from protein structures to reveal intrinsic, biochemically relevant substructures at all scales, without re-parameterisation or  a priori  coarse-graining. We subsequently perform full alanine and arginine  in silico   mutagenesis scans of the protein, and score all mutations according to the disruption they induce on the large-scale organisation. We use our calculations to guide Forster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) experiments on ADK, and show that mutating residue D152 to alanine or residue V164 to arginine induce a large dynamical shift of the protein structure towards a closed state, in accordance with our predictions. Our computations also predict a graded effect of different mutations at the D152 site as a result of increased coherence between the core and binding domains, an effect confirmed quantitatively through a high correlation (R 2 = 0.93) with the FRET ratio between closed and open populations measured on six mutants.
development is currently a high priority in neurodevelopmental disorder research.  For many types of biomarkers (particularly biomarkers of diagnosis), reliability over short time periods is critically important.  In the field of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), resting electroencephalography (EEG) power spectral densities (PSD) are well-studied for their potential as biomarkers. Classically, such data have been decomposed into pre-specified frequency bands (e.g., delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma). Recent technical advances, such as the Fitting Oscillations and One-Over-F (FOOOF) algorithm, allow for targeted characterization of the features that naturally emerge within an EEG PSD, permitting a more detailed characterization of the frequency band-agnostic shape of each individual9s EEG PSD. Here, using two resting EEGs collected a median of 6 days apart from 22 children with ASD and 25 typically developing (TD) controls during the Feasibility Visit of the Autism Biomarkers Consortium for Clinical Trials, we estimate within visit test-retest reliability based on characterization of the PSD shape in two ways: (1) Using the FOOOF algorithm we estimate six parameters (offset, slope, number of peaks, and amplitude, center frequency and bandwidth of the largest alpha peak) that characterize the shape of the EEG PSD; and (2) using nonparametric functional data analyses, we decompose the shape of the EEG PSD into a reduced set of basis functions that characterize individual power spectrum shapes. We show that individuals exhibit idiosyncratic PSD signatures that are stable over recording sessions using both characterizations. Our data show that EEG activity from a brief two-minute recording provides an efficient window into understanding brain activity at the single-subject level with desirable psychometric characteristics that persist across different analytical decomposition methods. This is a necessary step towards analytical validation of biomarkers based on the EEG PSD, and provides insights into parameters of the PSD that offer short-term reliability (and thus promise as potential biomarkers of trait or diagnosis) versus those that are more variable over the short term (and thus may index state or other rapidly dynamic measures of brain function).  Future research should address longer-term stability of the PSD, for purposes such as monitoring development or response to treatment.
tational landscapes are shaped by the cellular environment, but key factors and their quantitative effects are often unknown. Here we show that Lon, a quality control protease naturally absent in common E. coli expression strains, drastically reshapes the mutational landscape of the metabolic enzyme dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). Selection under conditions that resolve highly active mutants reveals that 23.3% of all single point mutations in DHFR are advantageous in the absence of Lon, but advantageous mutations are largely suppressed when Lon is reintroduced. Protein stability measurements demonstrate extensive activity-stability tradeoffs for the advantageous mutants and provide a mechanistic explanation for Lon9s widespread impact. Our findings suggest possibilities for tuning mutational landscapes by modulating the cellular environment, with implications for protein design and combatting antibiotic resistance.
ondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) plays a critical role in the mitochondrial calcium uptake into the matrix. In metazoans, the uniporter is a tightly regulated multi-component system including the pore-forming subunit MCU and several regulators (MICU1, MICU2, EMRE). The calcium-conducting activity of metazoan MCU requires the single-transmembrane protein EMRE. Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd), however, developed a simplified uniporter for which the pore-forming MCU (DdMCU) alone is necessary and sufficient for calcium influx. Here, we report a crystal structure of the N-terminal domain (NTD) of DdMCU at 1.7 angstrom resolution. The DdMCU-NTD contains four helices and two strands arranged in a fold that is completely different from the known structures of other MCU-NTD homologs. Biochemical and biophysical analyses of DdMCU-NTD in solution indicated that the domain exists as oligomers, most probably as a pentamer or hexamer. Mutagenesis showed that the acidic residues Asp60, Glu72 and Glu74, which appeared to mediate the parallel interface as observed in the crystal structure, participated in the self-assembly of DdMCU-NTD. Intriguingly, the oligomeric complex readily dissociated to lower-order oligomers in the presence of calcium. We propose that the calcium-triggered dissociation of NTD regulates the channel activity of DdMCU by a yet unknown mechanism.
udy brain-sparing physiological responses in a rodent model of birth asphyxia which reproduces the asphyxia-defining systemic hypoxia and hypercapnia. Methods: Steady or intermittent asphyxia was induced for 15-45 min in anesthetized 6 and 11 days old rats and neonatal guinea pigs using gases containing 5% or 9% O 2  plus 20% CO 2  (in N 2 ). Hypoxia and hypercapnia were induced with low O 2  and high CO 2 , respectively. Oxygen partial pressure ( P  O2 ) and pH were measured with microsensors within the brain and subcutaneous (9body9) tissue. Blood lactate was measured after asphyxia. Results: Brain and body  P  O2  fell to apparent zero with little recovery during 5% O 2  asphyxia and 5% or 9% O 2  hypoxia, and increased more than twofold during 20% CO 2  hypercapnia. Unlike body  P  O2 , brain  P  O2  recovered rapidly to control after a transient fall (rat), or was slightly higher that control (guinea pig) during 9% O 2  asphyxia. Asphyxia (5% O 2 ) induced a respiratory acidosis paralleled by a progressive metabolic (lact)acidosis that was much smaller within than outside the brain. Hypoxia (5% O 2 ) produced brain-confined alkalosis. Hypercapnia outlasting asphyxia suppressed pH recovery and prolonged the post-asphyxia  P  O2  overshoot. All pH changes were accompanied by consistent shifts in the blood-brain barrier potential. Conclusion: Regardless of brain maturation stage, hypercapnia can restore brain  P  O2  and protect the brain against metabolic acidosis despite compromised oxygen availability during asphyxia. This effect extends to recovery phase if normocapnia is restored slowly, and it is absent during hypoxia, demonstrating that exposure to hypoxia does not mimic asphyxia.
 Cre-recombinase expressing mouse lines are widely used to express fluorescent proteins and opto-/chemogenetic actuators, making them a cornerstone of modern neuroscience. Particularly, the investigation of interneurons has benefitted from the ability to target genetic constructs to defined cell types. However, the cell type specificity of some mouse lines has been called into questions. Here we show for the first time the functional consequences of unspecific expression in a somatostatin-Cre (SST-Cre) mouse line. We find large optogenetically evoked excitatory currents originating from unspecifically targeted CA3 pyramidal cells. We also used public Allen Brain Institute data to estimate expression specificity in other Cre lines. Another SST-Cre mouse lines shows comparable unspecificity, whereas a Parvalbumin-Cre mouse line shows much less unspecific expression. Finally, we make suggestions to ensure that the results from in-vivo use of Cre mouse lines are interpretable.
ty of the Earth9s microbial biomass exists in the Deep Biosphere, in the deep ocean and within the Earth9s crust. While other physical parameters in these environments, such as temperature or pH, can differ substantially, they are all under high-pressures. Beyond emerging genomic information, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying the ability of these organisms to survive and grow at pressures that can reach over 1000-fold pressure on the Earth9s surface. The mechanisms of pressure adaptation are also important to in food safety, with the increasing use of high-pressure food processing. Advanced imaging represents an important tool for exploring microbial adaptation and response to environmental changes. Here we describe implementation of a high-pressure sample chamber with a 2-photon scanning microscope system allowing for the first time, quantitative high-resolution two-photon imaging at 100 MPa of living microbes from all three kingdoms of life. We adapted this setup for Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging Microscopy with Phasor analysis (FLIM/Phasor) and investigated metabolic responses to pressure of live cells from mesophilic yeast and bacterial strains, as well as the piezophilic archaeon, Archaeoglobus fulgidus. We also monitored by fluorescence intensity fluctuation-based methods (scanning Number and Brightness (sN&amp;amp;B) and Raster scanning Imaging Correlation Spectroscopy (RICS)) the effect of pressure on the chromosome-associated protein HU and on the ParB partition protein in E. coli, revealing partially reversible dissociation of ParB foci and concomitant nucleoid condensation.
 The dopamine system is thought to be important in incentive salience attribution, where motivational value is assigned to a cue that predicts an appetitive reinforcer (sign-tracking), however, dopamine9s role may change with extended training. Objectives: We tested the effects of selective dopamine D1-like and D2-like receptor antagonism on the expression of Pavlovian conditioned approach after extended Pavlovian conditioned approach (PCA) training. We also tested the hypothesis that locomotor sensitization would accelerate the phenotypic shift to sign-tracking. Methods: 24 male Long-Evans rats were subjected to 20 PCA sessions in which one lever (CS+, 10 s) predicted 0.2 mL sucrose delivery and the other lever (CS-) did not. SCH-23390 or eticlopride were administered prior to behavioral tests at doses of 0, 0.01, and 0.1 mg/kg (s.c.). In a subsequent experiment, rats were exposed to vehicle or 2 mg/kg amphetamine (i.p.) for 7 days (n = 12/group). After a 10-day incubation period, they were subjected to PCA training for 16 sessions. Results: The D1 antagonist SCH-23390 reduced locomotor activity and port entries during inter-trial intervals, but the D2 antagonist eticlopride selectively reduced CS+ port entries in goal-trackers, i.e. animals motivated towards the reinforcer. Locomotor sensitization had no effect on the acquisition of sign-tracking. Conclusions: A commonly used dose of SCH-23390 exhibited off-target locomotor effects and D2 receptors were not required for expression of sign-tracking after extended training. Amphetamine-induced locomotor sensitization did not enhance acquisition of sign-tracking behavior, suggesting that the sensitivity of the dopamine system does not drive acquisition of sign-tracking behavior.
: UP-DOWN state is considering as a dominant electrographic pattern during immobility and slow wave sleep. This study is focused on the analysis of spatial distribution and neuronal correlates of the DOWN state in rats. Methods: Local field potentials and multiunit discharges were recorded bilaterally in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus of non-anesthetized, tethered rats (Sprague Dawley, males, weight 350-400g) with 256 channel, 4 shank silicon probes. We have focused our study on the analysis of the positive wave of slow oscillations (SOs), which is considered as the DOWN (silent) state of the UP-DOWN state in the anterior cingulate (AC), prelimbic (PL) areas of PFC and hippocampus during immobility. Results: Our experiments showed that SOs occurred intermittently with a mean interval 1.4 SD 0.8 seconds. The SOs began with the DOWN state, and they were generated locally within AC or PL areas, or simultaneously in AC, PL and hippocampus bilaterally (generalized SOs). The DOWN state of local SOs in the AC was associated with a decreased rate of multiunit discharges. Similar waves in the PL area were associated with increased multiunit discharges.  We observed high speed propagation of generalized SOs that occurred with 3-6ms delay within left and right PFC and less than 10ms delay between the PFC and CA1 area of hippocampus. All generalized SOs were associated with decreased multiunit discharges. Conclusion: Our data support the hypothesis that neocortical networks are sufficient to generate focal SOs but the participation of external input is needed for occurrence of generalized SOs.
hrenia, among the most consistent brain changes are both aberrant dopamine function in the dorsal striatum and aberrant intrinsic functional connectivity (iFC) between distinct cortical networks and thalamic nuclei; however, it is unknown whether these changes are pathophysiologically related. Such a relationship is expected because cortico-thalamic-connectivity is modulated by striatal dopamine within topographically distinct, parallel but interacting cortico-basal-ganglia-thalamic circuits. We hypothesized: (1) Within-circuits, aberrant striatal dopamine contributes to aberrant cortico-thalamic-iFC; specifically, associative-striatum dopamine contributes to salience-network-thalamic-iFC, and sensorimotor-striatum dopamine to auditory-sensorimotor-network-thalamic-iFC. (2) Due to between-circuits interactions following an anterior-to-posterior gradient, salience-network-centered-system changes contribute to auditory-sensorimotor-network-centered-system changes. To test these hypotheses, 19 patients with schizophrenia during symptomatic remission of positive symptoms and 19 age- and sex-comparable controls underwent simultaneous fluorodihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine positron emission tomography (18F-DOPA-PET) and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI). The influx constant kicer based on 18F-DOPA-PET was used to measure dopamine synthesis capacity (DSC), indicating striatal dopamine function; correlation coefficients between rs-fMRI time-series of cortical networks and thalamic regions-of-interest were used to measure iFC. In the salience-network(SAL)-centered-system, patients had reduced associative-striatum-DSC, which correlated positively with SAL-mediodorsal-thalamus-iFC and mediated the reduction of SAL-thalamic-iFC in patients. In the auditory-sensorimotor-network(ASM)-centered-system, patients had reduced sensorimotor-striatum-DSC, which correlated positively with ASM-ventrolateral-thalamus-iFC, but did not mediate increased ASM-thalamic-iFC in patients. Finally, aberrant DSC and iFC of the SAL-centered-system mediated corresponding changes in the ASM-centered-system. Results demonstrate that cortico-thalamic-dysconnectivity links with aberrant striatal dopamine in schizophrenia - in a topographically distinct way, with an anterior-to-posterior gradient, and primary changes in the SAL-centered system.
vertebrates are excellent indicators of ecosystem quality; however, choosing a sampling method can be difficult. Each method and associated protocol has advantages and disadvantages, and finding the approach that minimizes biases yet fulfills management objectives is crucial. To test the effects of both sampling methods and sample handling - i.e., to composite samples or leave them as replicates - we collected aquatic invertebrates from the Niobrara River at Agate Fossil Beds National Monument, Nebraska using three methods and two sample handling protocols. We compared aquatic invertebrate assemblages collected with a Hester-Dendy multi-plate sampler, Hess sampler and a D-frame dipnet. We calculated six common bioassessment metrics from composite (combined) and replicate (separate) samples. Hess samples contained the highest taxonomic richness (capturing 77% of all taxa observed) and dipnet samples the least (47%). Hester-Dendy samples had the greatest proportion of Ephemeroptera, and Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT). Dipnet samples had the lowest evenness values. In terms of sample handling, composite samples had inflated richness, diversity and evenness compared to replicate samples, but bioassessment metrics calculated from proportions or averages (i.e. Hilsenhoff9s Biotic Index and the proportion of EPT taxa) did not differ between them. The proportion of invertebrate groups from composite samples were not statistically different among sampling methods, but several groups differed between replicate samples collected by different methods. Ultimately, we recommend collecting replicate samples with a Hess sampler when the goal of the study is to detect ecosystem change, among locations or differences in variables of interest.
capes contain complex blends of discrete molecules that each activate unique, overlapping populations of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Despite the presence of hundreds of OSN subtypes in many animals, the overlapping nature of odor inputs may lead to saturation of neural responses at the early stages of stimulus encoding. Information loss due to saturation could be mitigated by normalizing mechanisms such as antagonism at the level of receptor-ligand interactions, whose existence and prevalence remains uncertain. By imaging OSN axon terminals in olfactory bulb glomeruli as well as OSN cell bodies within the olfactory epithelium in freely breathing mice, we found widespread antagonistic interactions in binary odor mixtures. In complex mixtures of up to 12 odorants, antagonistic interactions became stronger and more prevalent with increasing mixture complexity. Therefore, antagonism is a remarkably common feature of odor mixture encoding in olfactory sensory neurons and helps in normalizing activity to reduce saturation.
 (Nt)-acetylation is a highly prevalent co-translational protein modification in eukaryotes, catalyzed by at least five Nt-acetyltransferases (Nat) with differing specificities. Nt-acetylation has been implicated in protein quality control but its broad biological significance remains elusive. We investigated the roles of the two major Nats of  S. cerevisiae , NatA and NatB, by performing transcriptome, translatome and proteome profiling of  natA  and  natB  mutants. Our results do not support a general role of Nt-acetylation in protein degradation but reveal an unexpected range of Nat-specific phenotypes. NatA is implicated in systemic adaptation control, as  natA  mutants display altered expression of transposons, sub-telomeric genes, pheromone response genes and nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. NatB predominantly affects protein folding, as  natB  mutants accumulate protein aggregates, induce stress responses and display reduced fitness in absence of the ribosome-associated chaperone Ssb. These phenotypic differences indicate that controlling Nat activities may serve to elicit distinct cellular responses.
 pathogens often benefit from certain cellular host processes. For the biotrophic ascomycete fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) it has been shown that barley RACB, a small monomeric G-protein (ROP, RHO of plants), is required for full susceptibility to fungal penetration. The susceptibility function of RACB probably lies in its role in cell polarisation, which may be co-opted by the pathogen for invasive ingrowth of its haustorium. However, the actual mechnism of how RACB supports the fungal penetration success is little understood. RIC proteins are considered scaffold proteins which can interact directly with ROPs via a conserved CRIB motif. Here we describe a yet uncharacterised RIC protein, RIC157, which can interact directly with RACB. We could show that RIC157 undergoes a recruitment from the cytoplasm to the cell periphery in the presence of activated RACB. During fungal infection, RIC157 and activated RACB colocalise at the penetration site, particularly at the haustorial neck. In a RACB-dependent manner, transiently overexpressed RIC157 renders barley epidermal cells more susceptible to fungal penetration. We conclude that RIC157 promotes fungal penetration into barley epidermal cells via its function as downstream executor in RACB-signaling.
ate-based herbicides, sold under the commercial name Roundup, represent the most used herbicides in the world, contamination of the freshwater environment by glyphosate has become a widespread issue. In Italy, glyphosate was detected in half of the surface waters monitoring sites and its concentrations were higher than environmental quality standards in 24.5% of them. It can last from days to months in water, leading to exposure for aquatic organisms and specifically to amphibians9 larvae that develop in shallow water bodies with proven effects to development and behaviour. In this study, we tested the effects of a 96h exposure during embryonic development of marsh frog9s tadpoles to three ecologically relevant Roundup Power 2.0 concentrations. As expected, given the low concentrations tested, no mortality was observed. Morphological measurements highlighted a reduction in the total length in tadpoles exposed to 7.6 mg a.e./L, while an increase was observed at lower concentrations of 0.7 and 3.1 mg a.e./L compared to control group. Tadpoles raised in 7.6 mg a.e./L also showed a smaller tail membrane than those raised in the control solution. Regarding behaviour, we tested tadpoles in two different sessions (Gosner stages 25 and 28/29) for lateralization, antipredator response and basal activity. Lower intensity of lateralization was detected in tadpoles raised at the highest Roundup concentration in the first session of observation, while no significant difference among treatments was observed in the second one. In both sessions, effects of glyphosate embryonic exposure on antipredator response, measured as the proportional change in activity after the injection of tadpole-fed predator (Anax imperator) cue, were not detected. Tadpoles exposed during embryonic development to Roundup exhibited lower basal activity than the control group, with the strongest reduction for the 7.6 mg a.e./L treatment. Our results reinforce the concern of glyphosate contamination impact on amphibians.
ry arms-races between plants and herbivores have been proposed to generate key innovations that can drive diversification of the interacting species. Recent studies reveal that plant traits that target herbivore insect eggs are widespread throughout the plant kingdom. Within the Brassicaceae family, some plants express a hypersensitive response (HR)-like necrosis underneath the eggs of specialist cabbage white butterflies (Pieridae) that leads to eggs desiccating or dropping of the leaf. Here, we studied the evolutionary basis of this trait, its egg-killing effect on and elicitation by specialist butterflies, by screening 31 Brassicaceae species and nine Pieridae species. We show that induction of HR-like necrosis by pierid egg deposition is clade-specific in the economically important Brassiceae tribe (Brassica crops and close-relatives) and in the first-branching genus Aethionema. The necrosis is elicited only by pierid butterflies that feed on Brassicaceae plants; four Pieris and Anthocharis cardamines butterflies, of which the larvae are specialists on Brassicaceae, elicited a HR-like necrosis. Eggs of pierid butterflies that feed on Rhamnaceae (Gonepteryx rhamni) or Fabaceae (Colias spp.) however, did not elicit such a leaf necrosis. Finally, eggs of Aglais io, a species of the sister group Nymphalidae, did not elicit any visible response. Counter-adaptations to HR-like necrosis might have evolved by insect deposition of eggs in clusters or on inflorescences. Our findings suggest that the plants egg-killing trait is a new front on the evolutionary arms-race between Brassicaceae and pierid butterflies beyond the well-studied chemical defence traits against caterpillars.
 changes have been considered a potential missing link underlying phenotypic variation in selectable traits but is confounded with substantial genetic variation. Although the concept of epigenetic inheritance has been discussed in depth, there have been few studies attempting to directly dissect the amount of epigenetic variation within inbred natural populations while also accounting for genetic diversity. By using known genetic relationships between Brachypodium lines, multiple sets of nearly identical accession families were selected for phenotypic studies and DNA methylome profiling to investigate the dual role of (epi)genetics under simulated natural seasonal climate conditions. Despite reduced genetic diversity, appreciable phenotypic variation was still observable in the measured traits (height, leaf width and length, tiller count, flowering time, ear count) between as well as within the inbred accessions. However, the reduced genetic diversity also resulted in diminished variation in DNA methylation within families. Mixed-effects linear modelling revealed large genetic differences between families and a minor contribution of epigenetic variation on phenotypic variation in select traits. Taken together, this analysis suggests a limited but significant contribution of DNA methylation towards heritable phenotypic variation relative to genetic differences.
ational plasticity (TGP) occurs when the environment experienced by parents induces changes in offspring traits. Such effects can be adaptive or non-adaptive and are increasingly recognised as key determinants of health, cognition, development and performance across a wide range of taxa, including humans. While the conditions that favour maternal TGP are well understood, rapidly accumulating evidence indicates that TGP can be maternal or paternal, and offspring responses can be sex-specific. However, the evolutionary mechanisms that drive this diversity are unknown. Here we use individual-based models to show that diverse patterns of TGP can evolve when the sexes experience different environments. We find that non-adaptive patterns of TGP result when alleles at loci that determine offspring responses to environmental information originating from the mother and father are subject to sexually antagonistic selection. By contrast, a variety of sex-specific responses evolve via duplication and sex-limitation of loci responsive to parental information, including non-adaptive TGP when sexual selection is strong. Sexual conflict can therefore explain why adaptive TGP evolves in some species but not others, why sons and daughters respond to parental signals in different ways, and why complex patterns of sex-specific TGP may often be non-adaptive.
other species, the duck genome has been sequenced thanks to the technological breakthrough provided by the emergence of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS). The resulting  de novo  assemblies are however made of thousands of scattered scaffolds. To achieve chromosome-scale contiguity, long-range intermediate genome maps remain indispensable. Radiation Hybrid (RH) maps have been used to assist the generation of chromosome-scale genome assemblies by taking advantage of the high density SNP chips that provide a large number of markers that can be efficiently genotyped on the panel. In the absence of such a resource in duck, we sequenced 100 hybrid clones of a duck RH panel enabling direct genotyping of the assembly scaffolds on the panel. The rationale is to use scaffolds as markers and to genotype the scaffolds by sequencing the clones: the presence/absence of a scaffold in a particular sequenced hybrid is attested by the presence/absence of reads mapping specifically to this scaffold. The detection of scaffolds exhibiting a chromosomal breakage resulting from the irradiation process revealed itself to be a critical issue of this genotyping by sequencing process. This process resulted in the construction of RH vectors for 2,027 scaffolds, representing a total of about 1 Gb of sequences (95% of the current Duck genome assembly). The subsequent linkage analysis enabled the construction of RH maps and therefore to organize, i.e. order and orient, the scaffolds into pseudomolecules associated to the corresponding duck chromosomes. We describe here the whole mapping process, from sequence-based genotyping to the construction of comparative maps, as well as few examples of intra-chromosomal rearrangements that have been identified by the comparison with the chicken, turkey and zebra finch genomes and subsequently confirmed by FISH. We describe a method to order and orient sequence scaffolds into super-scaffolds spanning entire chromosomes. The method, which requires a pre-existing RH panel and sequence scaffolds from an NGS assembly, relies on a shallow sequencing of the RH clones. This approach was applied to the duck genome and produced chromosome-scale scaffolds for 29 out of the 41 duck chromosomes.
ol genetic association study is an efficient tool to search for the deleterious genetic variants predispose to human complex diseases, where the additive mode of inheritance is commonly assumed. However, how the genetic variants influence the occurrence of a certain disease is impossible to know beforehand. We show numerically that the existing procedures using the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test to choose the genetic model might be inconsistent. Then we propose a new consistent method to choose the genetic model. The extensive computer simulation results demonstrate the superiorities of the new method. Applications to six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for breast cancer and eight SNPs for Type 2 Diabetes further show the performances of the proposed method.
in cytoskeleton is required for development of the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ) but its role is unclear. Here we show that the muscle spectrin lattice functions to corral membrane-associated synaptic proteins and limit their lateral mobility. Drosophila adducin, Hts, is required for integrity of the spectrin cytoskeleton and disruption of Hts function results in failure of the corrals. The spectrin cytoskeleton is itself patterned at the muscle membrane by the engulfment receptor Draper (Drpr) through regulation of Hts. We find patches of membrane where the spectrin cytoskeleton is organized into bilaterally symmetric patterns, which coincide with a field of Drpr-dependent structures similar to phagocytic pseudopods. The bilaterally symmetric patterns are likely created by folds of the muscle membrane in the pseudopods. We present evidence that the folds trap nascent boutons of motor neurons, leading to boutons with a bilaterally symmetric organization of the postsynaptic membrane. Drpr thus acts as a sensor of synaptic damage that promotes synaptogenesis.
s pivotal role in evolutionary and ecological processes the genetic architecture underlying host-parasite interactions remains understudied. Here we use a quantitative trait loci approach to identify regions in the Daphnia magna genome that provide resistance against its microsporidium parasite Ordospora colligata. The probability that Daphnia became infected was affected by a single locus and an interaction between two additional loci. A fourth locus influenced the number of spores that grew within the host. Comparing our findings to previously published genetic work on Daphnia magna revealed that two of these loci may be the same as detected for another microsporidium parasite, suggesting a general immune response to this group of pathogens. More importantly this comparison revealed that two regions previously identified to be under selection coincided with parasite resistance loci, highlighting the pivotal role parasites may play in shaping the host genome.
egression methods that incorporate different mixture priors for marker effects are used in multi-trait genomic prediction. These methods can also be extended to genome-wide association studies (GWAS). In multiple-trait GWAS, incorporating the underlying causal structures among traits is essential for comprehensively understanding the relationship between genotypes and traits of interest. Therefore, we develop a GWAS methodology, SEM-BayesCPi, which, by applying the structural equation model (SEM), can be used to incorporate causal structures into a multi-trait Bayesian regression method using mixture priors. The performance of SEM-BayesCPi was demonstrated by comparing its GWAS results with those from multi-trait BayesCPi. Through the inductive causation (IC) algorithm, three potential causal structures were inferred of 0.9 highest posterior density (HPD) interval. SEM-BayesCPi provides a more comprehensive understanding of the genotype-phenotype mapping than multi-trait BayesCPi by performing GWAS based on indirect, direct and overall marker effects. The software tool JWAS offers open-source routines to perform these analyses.
eya species are high consequence plant pathogenic bacteria listed among the quarantine pathogens of the European Union; associated with potato disease outbreaks and subsequent economic losses worldwide. Early, accurate, and reliable detection of Dickeya spp. is needed to prevent establishment and further dissemination of this pathogen. Therefore, a multiplex TaqMan qPCR was developed for sensitive detection of Dickeya spp. and specifically, D. dianthicola. Methods and Results: A signature genomic region for the genus Dickeya (mglA/mglC) and unique genomic region for D. dianthicola (alcohol dehydrogenase) were identified using a whole genome based comparative genomics approach. The developed multiplex TaqMan qPCR was validated using extensive inclusivity and exclusivity panels, and naturally/artificially infected samples to confirm broad range detection capability and specificity. Both sensitivity and spiked assays showed detection limit of 10 fg DNA. Conclusion: The developed multiplex assay is sensitive and reliable to detect Dickeya spp. and D. dianthicola with no false positives or false negatives. It was able to detect mixed infection from naturally and artificially infected plant materials. Significance and Impact: The developed assay will serve as a practical tool for screening of propagative material, monitoring the presence and distribution, and quantification of target pathogens in a breeding program. The assay also has applications in routine diagnostics, biosecurity and microbial forensics.
nges in both landscape and climate have the potential to create or exacerbate problems with stormwater management, high flows, and flooding. In New England, four plausible land use scenarios were co-developed with stakeholders to give insight to the effects on ecosystem services of different trajectories of socio-economic connectedness and natural resource innovation. To assess the effects of these land-use scenarios on water-related ecosystem services, we applied the Soil and Water Assessment Tool to two watersheds under two climates. Differences in land use had minimal effects on the overall water balance but did affect high flows and the relative contribution of storm runoff to streamflow. For most of the scenarios, the effect was small and less than the effect due to climate change. For one scenario, envisioned to have global socio-economic connectedness and low levels of natural-resource innovation.  The effects of land-use changes were comparable to the effects due to climate. For that scenario, changes to the landscape increased the annual maximum daily flow by 10%, similar to the 5-15% increase attributable to climate change. These results, which were consistent across both watersheds, can help inform planning and policies regarding land use, development, and maintenance of hydrologic ecosystem services.
g subtle conformational fluctuations underlying the dynamics of bio macromolecules is crucial for resolving their free energy landscape. We show that a collective variable, originally proposed for crystalline solids, is able to filter out essential macromolecular motions more efficiently than other approaches. While homogenous or 9affine9 deformations of the biopolymer are trivial, biopolymer conformations are complicated by the occurrence of in-homogenous or 9non-affine9 displacements of atoms relative to their positions in the native structure. We show that these displacements encode functionally relevant conformations of macromolecule and, in combination with a formalism based upon time-structured independent component analysis, quantitatively resolve the free energy landscape of a number of macromolecules of hierarchical complexity. The kinetics of conformational transitions among the basins can now be mapped within the framework of a Markov state model. The non-affine modes, obtained by projecting out homogenous fluctuations from the local displacements, are found to be responsible for local structural changes required for transitioning between pairs of macro states.
eta-lactam antibiotics in combination with a beta-lactamase inhibitor are the firstline treatment option for Haemophilus influenzae infections. However, beta-lactamase-independent resistance to beta-lactams is increasing. This resistance mechanism has been linked to amino acid substitutions in the penicillin-binding protein 3 (PBP3), but how these substitutions lead to decreased binding affinities to certain beta-lactam antimicrobials remains unknown. Methods: We investigated beta-lactam resistance and amino acid substitutions in PBP3 from fifty-three clinical isolates of H. influenzae collected in Switzerland from January to April 2016. Identification of key polymorphisms and classification of strains into PBP3 amino acid substitution groups I, II, and M was done as previously described. Based on published PBP3 crystal structures, we investigated how the group-specific amino acid substitutions impact the beta-lactam binding site.Results: We found that both group I and group II substitutions disrupt the Asn526-Arg517-Glu324 interaction, which might affect the configuration of the beta-lactam binding site. Amino acid substitutions in group M strains are distant from the active site and have most likely no impact on beta-lactam binding. In accordance with this observation, all group M strains showed minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) within the susceptible range for all tested antimicrobials and were not significantly different to the wild type (beta-lactamase producers excluded), while group I and group II strains showed significantly higher MICs for beta-lactam antimicrobials.Conclusion: Group M strains are phenotypically equal to the wild type, 46 while amino acid substitutions of group I and group II might affect the beta-lactam binding through a common mechanism by disrupting the Asn526-Arg517-Glu324 interaction.
rwin posited two alternative hypotheses to explain the success of nonnative species based on their relatedness to incumbent natives: coexistence between them should be (i) more likely with greater relatedness (due to trait similarity that correlates with better matching to the environment), or (ii) less likely (due to biotic interference, such as competition). The paradox raised by the opposing predictions of these two hypotheses has been termed 9Darwin9s naturalization conundrum9 (DNC). Using plant communities measured repeatedly over a 31-year time span across an experimental fire gradient in an oak savanna (Minnesota, USA) we evaluated the DNC by explicitly incorporating taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic information. Our approach was based on 9focal-species9 such that the taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic structure of species co-occurring with a given nonnative species in local communities was quantified. We found three main results: first, nonnatives colonizers tended to co-occur most with closely related incumbent natives in recipient communities, except in the extreme ends of the fire gradient (i.e., communities with no fire and those subjected to high fire frequencies); second, with increasing fire frequency, nonnative species were functionally more similar to native species in recipient communities; third, functional similarity of co-occurring nonnatives and natives in recipient communities showed a consistent pattern over time, but the phylogenetic similarity shifted over time, suggesting that external forces (e.g., climate variability) are also relevant in driving the phylogenetic relatedness of nonnatives to natives in invaded communities. Our results provide insights for understanding the invasion dynamics across environmental gradients and highlight the importance of evaluating different dimensions of biodiversity in order to produce more powerful evaluations of species co-occurrence at different spatial and temporal scales.
resentations of head direction have been discovered in many different species. A large body of theoretical work has proposed that the dynamics associated with these representations might be generated, maintained, and updated by recurrent network structures called ring attractors. Ring attractor models rely on specific assumptions about the structure of excitatory and inhibitory connectivity. These assumptions have been difficult to test directly. We therefore performed electron-microscopy-based circuit reconstruction and RNA profiling of identified cell types in the heading direction system of Drosophila melanogaster to directly examine excitatory and inhibitory synaptic connectivity, generating a dataset that should serve as a reference for future functional studies of the network. Consistent with several theoretical models, we identified network motifs that have been hypothesized to maintain the heading representation in darkness, update it when the animal turns, and tether it to visual cues. Genetically targeted two-photon calcium imaging and thermogenetic perturbation of the constituent neuron types during behavior provided additional support for these functional roles. However, we also discovered network motifs absent in current models, including a surprising degree of recurrence between arbors of different neurons with mixed pre- and post-synaptic specializations. Overall, our results confirm that the Drosophila heading direction network contains the core components of a ring attractor while also revealing unpredicted structural features that might enable the heading system to accurately track the animal9s heading with a small number of neurons.
 resistance is a growing worldwide human health issue that is now rendering us vulnerable once again to infections that have been treatable for decades. Various approaches have been proposed in an effort to overcome this threat and effectively treat bacterial infections. We use a DNA origami nanostructure, functionalized with aptamers, as a vehicle for delivering the antibacterial peptide lysozyme in a specific and efficient manner, in order to destroy bacterial targets. We test the system against Gram positive (Bacillus subtilis) and Gram negative (Escherichia coli) targets. We use direct stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (dSTORM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) to characterize the DNA origami nanostructures and structured illumination microscopy (SIM) to assess the binding of the origami to the bacteria. We show that treatment with lysozyme-functionalized origami slows bacterial growth more effectively than treatment with free lysozyme. Our study introduces DNA origami as a tool in the fight against antibiotic resistance, and our results demonstrate the specificity and efficiency of the nanostructure as a drug delivery vehicle.
phic interactions link primary producers (phytoplankton) and consumers (zooplankton) in lakes. However, the influence of such interactions on the biogeographical distribution of the  taxa and functional traits of planktonic organisms in lakes has never been explicitly tested. To better understand the spatial distribution of these two major aquatic groups, we related the distributions of their taxa and functional traits across boreal lakes (104 for zooplankton and 48 for phytoplankton) to a common suite of environmental and spatial factors. We directly tested the degree of coupling in their taxonomic and functional distributions across the subset of common lakes. Phytoplankton functional composition responded mainly to properties related to water quality, while zooplankton composition responded more strongly to lake morphometry. Overall, the spatial distributions of phytoplankton and zooplankton were coupled at taxonomic and functional levels but after controlling for the effect of environmental drivers (water quality and morphometry) and dispersal limitation, no residual coupling could be attributed to trophic interactions. The lack of support for the role of trophic interactions as a driver coupling the distribution of plankton communities across boreal lakes indicates that taxon-specific and functional trait driven ecological interactions may not modulate large-scale spatial patterns of phytoplankton and zooplankton in a coordinated way. Our results point to community structuring forces beyond the phytoplankton-zooplankton trophic coupling itself, and which  are specific to each trophic level: fish predation for zooplankton and resources for phytoplankton.
ion of an ecologically useful lasting memory requires that the brain has an accurate internal representation of the surrounding environment. In addition, it must have the ability to integrate a variety of different sensory stimuli and associate them with rewarding  and aversive behavioral outcomes. Over the previous years, a number of studies have dissected the anatomy and elucidated some of the working principles of the Drosophila mushroom body (MB), the fly9s center for learning and memory. As a consequence, we now have a functional understanding of where and how in the MB sensory stimuli converge and are associated. However, the molecular and cellular dynamics at the critical synaptic intersection for this process, the Kenyon cell-mushroom body output neuron  (KC-MBON) synapse, are largely unknown. Here, we introduce a first approach to understand this integration process and the physiological changes occurring at the KC-MBON synapse during Kenyon cell (KC) activation. We use the published connectome of the Drosophila MB to construct a functional computational model of the MBON-alpha-3-A dendritic structure. We simulate synaptic input by individual KC-MBON synapses by current injections into precisely (micro meter) identified local dendritic sections, and the input from a model population of KCs representing an odor by a spatially distributed cluster of current injections. By recording the effect of the simulated current injections on the membrane potential of the neuron, we show that the MBON-alpha-3-A is electrotonically compact. This suggests that odor-induced MBON activity is likely governed by input strength while the positions of KC input synapses are largely irrelevant.
ity negatively impacts plant function, development, and yield. Sorghum bicolor is a staple crop known to be drought tolerant, to have adapted to a variety of conditions, and to contain significant standing genetic diversity, making it an exemplary species to study phenotypic and physiological variation in salinity tolerance. In our study, a diverse group of sorghum landraces and accessions was first rank-ordered for salinity tolerance and then individuals spanning a wide range of response were analyzed for foliar proline and ion accumulation. We found that, while proline is often a good indicator of osmotic adjustment and is historically associated with increased salt tolerance, proline accumulation in sorghum reflects stress-response injury rather than acclimation. When combining ion profiles with growth responses and stress tolerance indices, the variation observed in tolerance was similarly not a sole result of Na+ accumulation, but rather reflected accession-specific mechanisms that may integrate these and other metabolic responses. When we compared variation in tolerance to phylogenetic relationships, we conclude that the most parsimonious explanation for the variation observed among accessions is that salinity tolerance was acquired early during domestication and was subsequently maintained or lost in diverged lineages during improvement in areas that vary in soil salinity.
e of the  Volvocine  lineage, spanning from unicellular  Chlamydomonas  to vastly larger  Volvox , are models for the study of the evolution of multicellularity, flagellar dynamics, and developmental processes. Phototactic steering in these organisms occurs without a central nervous system, driven solely by the response of individual cells. All such algae spin about a body-fixed axis as they swim; directional photosensors on each cell thus receive periodic signals when that axis is not aligned with the light. The flagella of  Chlamydomonas  and  Volvox  both exhibit an adaptive response to such signals in a manner that allows for accurate phototaxis, but in the former the two flagella have distinct responses, while the thousands of flagella on the surface of spherical  Volvox  colonies have essentially identical behaviour. The planar 16-cell species  Gonium pectorale  thus presents a conundrum, for its central 4 cells have a  Chlamydomonas -like beat that provide propulsion normal to the plane, while its 12 peripheral cells generate rotation around the normal through a  Volvox -like beat. Here, we combine experiment, theory, and computations to reveal how  Gonium , perhaps the simplest differentiated colonial organism, achieves phototaxis. High-resolution cell tracking, particle image velocimetry of flagellar driven flows, and high-speed imaging of flagella on micropipette-held colonies show how, in the context of a recently introduced model for  Chlamydomonas  phototaxis, an adaptive response of the peripheral cells alone leads to photo-reorientation of the entire colony. The analysis also highlights the importance of local variations in flagellar beat dynamics within a given colony, which can lead to enhanced reorientation dynamics.
single stranded (ss) DNA-binding proteins (SSB) are essential for the replication and maintenance of the genome. SSBs share a conserved ssDNA-binding domain, a less conserved intrinsically disordered linker (IDL) and a highly conserved C-terminal peptide (CTP) motif that mediates a wide array of protein-protein interactions with DNA-metabolizing proteins. Here we show that the E. coli SSB protein forms liquid-liquid phase separated condensates in cellular-like conditions through multifaceted interactions involving all structural regions of the protein. SSB, ssDNA and SSB-interacting molecules are highly concentrated within the condensates, whereas phase separation is overall regulated by the stoichiometry of SSB and ssDNA. Together with recent results on subcellular SSB localization patterns, our results point to a conserved mechanism by which bacterial cells store a pool of SSB and SSB-interacting proteins. Dynamic phase separation enables rapid mobilization of this protein pool to protect exposed ssDNA and repair genomic loci affected by DNA damage.
extraction (MPE) is a necessary image-processing step in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)-based research on breeding fields. At present, it is manually using ArcGIS, QGIS or other GIS-based software, but achieving the desired accuracy is time-consuming. We therefore developed an intuitive, easy-to-use semi-automatic program for MPE called Easy MPE to enable researchers and others to access reliable plot data UAV images of whole fields under variable field conditions. The program uses four major steps: (1). Binary segmentation, (2). Microplot extraction, (3). Production of *.shp files to enable further file manipulation, and (4). Projection of individual microplots generated from the orthomosaic back onto the raw aerial UAV images to preserve the image quality. Crop rows were successfully identified in all trial fields. The performance of proposed method was evaluated by calculating the intersection-over-union (IOU) ratio between microplots determined manually and by Easy MPE: The average IOU (+-SD) of all trials was 91% (+-3).
robial eukaryotes underpin the largest food web on the planet and influence global biogeochemical cycles that maintain habitability. They are also remarkably diverse and provide insights into evolution, including the origins of complex life forms, as revealed through genome analyses. However, their genetic tractability has been limited to a few species that do not represent the broader diversity of eukaryotic life or some of the most environmentally relevant taxa. Here, we report on genetic systems developed as a community resource for experimental cell biology of marine protists from across the eukaryotic tree of life. We outline DNA delivery methods, expression constructs, and genome editing approaches that proved successful, as well as results from taxa where a working system was not achieved. The reported breakthroughs on genetic manipulation position the community to dissect cellular mechanisms from a breadth of protists, which will collectively provide insights into ancestral eukaryotic lifeforms, protein diversification and evolution of cellular pathways.
parietal multiple-demand (MD) control network plays a key role in goal-directed behavior. Recent developments of multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA) for fMRI data allows for more fine-grained investigations into the functionality and properties of brain systems. In particular, MVPA in the MD network was used to gain better understanding of control processes such as attentional effects, adaptive coding, and representation of multiple task-relevant features, but its use for this network has been limited by overall low decoding levels. A common practice of applying MVPA is by investigating pattern discriminability within a region-of-interest (ROI) using a template mask, thus ensuring that the same brain areas are studied in all participants. This approach offers high sensitivity, but does not take into account differences between individuals in the spatial organization of brain regions. An alternative approach uses independent localizer data for each subject to select the most responsive voxels and define individual ROIs within the boundaries of a group template. Such an approach allows for a refined and targeted localization based on the unique pattern of activity of individual subjects while ensuring that functionally similar brain regions are studied for all subjects. In the current study we tested whether using individual ROIs leads to changes in decodability of task-related neural representations as well as univariate activity across the MD network compared to when using a group template. We used three localizer tasks to separately define subject-specific ROIs: spatial working memory, verbal working memory, and a Stroop task. We then systematically assessed univariate and multivariate results in a separate rule-based criterion task. All the localizer tasks robustly recruited the MD network and evoked highly reliable activity patterns in individual subjects. Consistent with previous studies, we found a clear benefit of the subject-specific ROIs for univariate results from the criterion task, with increased activity in the individual ROIs based on the localizers data, compared to the activity observed when using the group template. In contrast, there was no benefit of the subject-specific ROIs, as well as no cost, for multivariate results. Both univariate and multivariate results were similar in the individual ROIs defined by each of the three localizers. Our results provide an important empirical evidence for researchers in the field of cognitive control for the use of individual ROIs in the frontoparietal network for both univariate and multivariate analysis of fMRI data, and serve as another step towards standardization and increased comparability across studies.
upply legumes with fixed nitrogen using a set of symbiosis genes. These can cross rhizobium species boundaries, but it is unclear how many other genes show similar mobility. Here, we investigate inter-species introgression using  de novo  assembly of 196  Rhizobium leguminosarum  bv.  trifolii  genomes. The 196 strains constituted a five-species complex, and we calculated introgression scores based on gene tree traversal to identify 171 genes that frequently cross species boundaries. Rather than relying on the gene order of a single reference strain, we clustered the introgressing genes into four blocks based on population structure-corrected linkage disequilibrium patterns. The two largest blocks comprised 125 genes and included the symbiosis genes, a smaller block contained 43 mainly chromosomal genes, and the last block consisted of three genes with variable genomic location. All introgression events were likely mediated by conjugation, but only the genes in the symbiosis linkage blocks displayed overrepresentation of distinct, high-frequency haplotypes. The three genes in the last block were core genes essential for symbiosis that had, in some cases, been mobilized on symbiosis plasmids. Inter-species introgression is thus not limited to symbiosis genes and plasmids, but other cases are infrequent and show distinct selection signatures.
 based contractility in smooth muscle and non-muscle cells is regulated  by signaling through the small GTPase Rho and by calcium-activated pathways. We use the myoepithelial cells of the Caenorhabditis elegans spermatheca to study the mechanisms of coordinated myosin activation in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that redox signaling regulates RHO-1/Rho activity in this contractile tissue. Exogenous hydrogen peroxide treatment decreases spermathecal contractility by inhibiting RHO-1, which is mediated through a conserved cysteine in its active site (C20). Further, we identify a gradient of oxidation across the spermathecal tissue, which is regulated by the cytosolic superoxide dismutase, SOD-1. SOD-1 functions in the Rho pathway to inhibit RHO-1 through oxidation of C20. Our results suggest that SOD-1 functions to regulate the redox environment and to fine-tune Rho activity across the spermatheca.
ical microenvironment of primary breast tumors plays a substantial role in promoting tumor progression. While the transitory response of cancer cells to pathological stiffness in their native microenvironment has been well described, it is still unclear how mechanical stimuli in the primary tumor influence distant, late-stage metastatic phenotypes across time and space in absentia. Here, we show that primary tumor stiffness promotes stable, non-genetically heritable phenotypes in breast cancer cells. This mechanical memory instructs cancer cells to adopt and maintain increased cytoskeletal dynamics, traction force, and 3D invasion in vitro, in addition to promoting osteolytic bone metastasis in vivo. Furthermore, we established a mechanical conditioning (MeCo) score comprised of mechanically-regulated genes as a global gene expression measurement of tumor stiffness response. Clinically, we show that a high MeCo score is strongly associated with bone metastasis in patients. Using a discovery approach, we mechanistically traced mechanical memory in part to ERK-mediated mechanotransductive activation of RUNX2, an osteogenic gene bookmarker and bone metastasis driver. The combination of these RUNX2 traits permits the stable transactivation of osteolytic target genes that remain upregulated after cancer cells disseminate from their activating microenvironment in order to modify a distant microenvironment. Using genetic, epigenetic, and functional approaches, we were able to simulate, repress, select and extend RUNX2-mediated mechanical memory and alter cancer cell behavior accordingly. In concert with previous studies detailing the influence of biochemical properties of the primary tumor stroma on distinct metastatic phenotypes, our findings detailing the influence of biomechanical properties support a generalized model of cancer progression in which the integrated properties of the primary tumor microenvironment govern the secondary tumor microenvironment, i.e., soil instructs soil.
sorting complexes required for transport-III (ESCRT-III) are thought to assemble in vivo inside membrane structures with a negative Gaussian curvature. How membrane shape influences ESCRT-III polymerization and conversely how ESCRT-III polymers shape membranes is still unclear. Here, we used human core ESCRT-III proteins, CHMP4B, CHMP2A, CHMP2B and CHMP3 to address this issue in vitro by combining membrane nanotube pulling experiments, cryo-electron microscopy, cryo-electron tomography and high-speed AFM. We show that CHMP4B filaments bind preferentially to flat membranes or to membrane tubes with a positive mean curvature. Both CHMP2B and CHMP2A/CHMP3 assemble on positively curved membrane tubes, the latter winding around the tubes. Although combinations of CHMP4B/CHMP2B and CHMP4B/CHMP2A/CHMP3 are recruited to the neck of pulled membrane tubes, they also reshape large unilamellar vesicles into helical membrane tubes with a pipe surface shape. Sub-tomogram averaging reveals that the filaments assemble parallel to the tube axis with some local perpendicular connections, highlighting the particular mechanical stresses imposed by ESCRT-III to stabilize the corkscrew-like membrane architecture. Our results thus underline the versatile membrane remodeling activity of ESCRT-III that may be a general feature of ESCRT-III required for all or selected cellular membrane remodeling processes.
brain barrier (BBB) has an important significance in maintenance and regulation of the neural microenvironment. The occurrence of BBB disruption is the pathological change of early Alzheimer9s disease (AD). RNA-binding proteins and long non-coding RNAs are closely related to the regulation of BBB permeability. Our study was performed to demonstrate TRA2A/LINC00662/ELK4 axis that regulates BBB permeability in AD microenvironment. In A1-42-incubated microvascular endothelial cells (ECs) of BBB model in vitro, TRA2A and LINC00662 were enriched. TRA2A increased the stability of LINC00662 by binding with it. The knockdown of either TRA2A or LINC00662 decreased the BBB permeability via upregulating the levels of tight junction-related proteins. ELK4 was downregulated in BBB model in vitro in AD microenvironment. LINC00662 mediated the degradation of ELK4 mRNA by SMD pathway. The downregulated ELK4 increased the permeability of BTB by inducing the tight junction-related proteins. TRA2A/LINC00662/ELK4 axis is important in the regulation of BBB permeability in AD microenvironment, which would be a new molecular target for AD treatment.
prostate cancer develops very slowly in most men, with the androgen receptor (AR) and MYC transcription factors amongst the most well-characterized drivers of prostate tumorigenesis. Canonically, MYC up-regulation in luminal prostate cancer cells functions to oppose the terminally differentiating effects of AR. However, the effects of MYC up-regulation are pleiotropic and inconsistent with a poorly proliferative phenotype. Here we show that increased MYC expression and activity are associated with the down-regulation of MEIS1, a HOX-family transcription factor. Using RNA-seq to profile a series of human prostate cancer specimens laser capture microdissected on the basis of MYC immunohistochemistry, MYC activity and MEIS1 expression were inversely correlated. Knockdown of MYC expression in prostate cancer cells increased expression of MEIS1 and increased occupancy of MYC at the MEIS1 locus. Finally, we show in laser capture microdissected human prostate cancer samples and the prostate TCGA cohort that MEIS1 expression is inversely proportional to AR activity as well as HOXB13, a known interacting protein of both AR and MEIS1. Collectively, our data demonstrate that elevated MYC in a subset of primary prostate cancers functions in a negative role in regulating MEIS1 expression, and that this down-regulation may contribute to MYC-driven development and progression.